Rose Garden549 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Okay. Thank you very much. Please. Thank you. A big day today at the White House. All of American society is engaged and mobilized in the war against the invisible enemy. While we must remain vigilant, it is clear that our aggressive strategy is working  and very strongly working, I might add.New cases are declining throughout the New York metropolitan area. Cases in the Detroit and Denver metro areas are flat. Washington, D.C. Baltimore Philadelphia and St. Louis are showing great signs of progress, and new cases in Houston and New Orleans are declining.The battle continues, but the data suggests that nationwide we have passed the peak on new cases. Hopefully that will continue and we will continue to make great progress.These encouraging developments have put us in a very strong position to finalize guidelines for states on reopening the country, which well be announcing. Were going to be talking about that tomorrow. Well be having a news conference tomorrow sometime during the afternoon. Were going to be announcing guidelines, and well be talking about various states. And its very exciting.Its been a horrible time to see such death and destruction, especially when you come out of what was the greatest economy in the history of the world. The greatest. Theres never been an economy like what we had produced, but well produce it again. And I think well produce it again very fast.The medical and healthcare advances weve made are critical to our continued progress. Weve rapidly developed the most expansive and accurate testing system anywhere in the world and have completed more than 3.3 million tests. To date, we have authorized 48 separate coronavirus tests, and the FDA is working with 300 companies and labs to widen our capacity still further.Today, Abbott Labs announced that it has developed an antibody test that will determine if someone has been previously infected with the coronavirus and potentially developed immunity. Its a great test. The company says these tests could be available to screen up to 20 million people in a matter of weeks.My administration is also distributing vast amounts of medical supplies to states across the country through Project Air Bridge, which has been an amazing success. We have completed 44 flights  and these are flights of very, very large airplanes, massive cargo planes  44 flights of critical supplies as of today and an additional 56 flights scheduled in the near future. We have some very brilliant people working on this. Its logistically incredible what theyve done. And weve also been working on this with the military. And these people have been  the genius of all of them together, it has been incredible to watch.In total, through all channels, the federal government has developed and delivered 39.4 million N95 masks, 431 million gloves, 57 million surgical masks, and 10.2 million gowns. We ordered 500 million masks, and theyll be coming shortly. And weve distributed 100 million masks.Following our use of the Defense Production Act, GM announced that its first ventilators come off the assembly line in Kokomo, Indiana  a great place. They did it in 11 days, from start to finish, a remarkable testament to the ingenuity of the American worker. GM will ship over 600 ventilators this month alone, with thousands more to come. And we have other companies doing something similar.And I think they said that theres a brief clip that we have of General Motors, sent to us by General Motors. And I think they might be wanting to play that for your benefit. Please.A video is played.I know you got a little bit nervous when you saw there was a clip about ready to be played, but that was sent to us by General Motors, and we thought it would be a good one to play. Its amazing. Its  you know, what theyve done in a very, very short period of time.Theyre now making thousands of ventilators, and theyre coming out of the factory very rapidly, at a clip that nobody can even believe. But we have others also doing it. And these are very highgrade ventilators. So were helping a lot of people. And at this moment, nobody needs them. We have to remember, during the surge, nobody has needed him for weeks now.But well have them for stockpiles, and very importantly, were going to have them for other countries because nobody is able to do things like we can do. And were going to be able to help other countries that are having tremendous problems, to put it mildly.My administration is using every available authority to accelerate the development, study, and delivery of therapies  so important, therapies  treatments, and ultimately, what we want to come up with is a safe vaccine. But frankly, the therapies, to me, are the most important because it takes care of people right now. The vaccines have to be tested, so it takes a longer period of time. But we have some great potential therapies already, and well see how theyre working. Well be able to report on that, I think, over the next week or two. Tremendous progress has been made.At least 35 clinical trials of promising therapies are now underway. So 35 different genius companies. If you look at AIDS, if you look at Ebola, if you look at so many things, theyve come up with the answers to so many things, you wouldnt have believed it. And were very honored to be working with them.They include antivirals, and also  and they  something which is incredible It keeps the virus from multiplying. A mechanism that keeps the virus from multiplying. Immune therapies that prevent the immune system from overreaching to the virus. And convalescent plasma treatments that use antibodies from the blood of recovered patients.And we have a lot of patients who recover, and theyre so happy to have recovered that the first thing they do is say, We want to give our blood. And they do that. Its incredible. We have thousands of people that are doing that. They recover and they feel they have an obligation because theyve gotten such great care. And a lot of them didnt think they were going to make it.As the entire U.S. government works to combat the global pandemic, it is absolutely essential that the key positions at relevant federal agencies are fully staffed. And were not allowing that to take place through our Congress. Theyre just not  theyre just not giving it to us. We have many, many positions that are unstaffed because we cant get the approvals. The Democrats are holding us up. We cannot get approval.Weve gotten judges because we go through the process. I guess were up to 448 federal judges. And that, weve gotten because we focus on it we take the maximum time. Because no matter who the judge is, they take vast numbers of days and hours to approve, and it leaves no time left for others. Very unfair system.If a judge is going to be approved in one hour, in one session, it doesnt matter  theyll take the maximum number of hours and days  youre talking about days  to get one judge approved. And were close to 250 judges, but because of the way theyre doing it, theres no time for anybody else. And many of these people have been waiting for two and a half years. We have a couple that have been waiting for longer than that.There are currently 129 nominees stuck in the Senate because of partisan obstruction. Many are nominated for vacancies that must be filled to assist with the coronavirus crisis and the resulting economic challenges. And Ive read, over the last couple of years, Well, I didnt fill positions. I dont fill positions  in some cases, we dont need the position, and Im all for that. But in many cases, you do, but we cant get them approved by the Democrats. They wont release them.The positions include the Director of National Intelligence, two members of the Federal Reserve Board of Governors, the Assistant Secretary of Treasury for Financial Markets of the United States, and the Undersecretary of Agriculture responsible for administering food security programs. And Sonny Perdue, whos going to be speaking today, is saying, Please, can I have this man, can I have this particular person approved as soon as possible? Hes been telling me that for a long time, and the Democrats wont allow it to happen.Again, every single judge, every nominee we have goes through maximum, or at least they go through a long process. So it takes days and days, and theres no time left. And its just a concerted effort to make life difficult.An example is Michael Pack. Hes my nominee for the CEO of the Broadcasking sic  Broadcasting Board of Governors. And hes been stuck in committee for two years, preventing us from managing the Voice of America. Very important.And if you heard whats coming out of the Voice of America, its disgusting. What  things they say are disgusting toward our country. And Michael Pack would get in and hed do a great job, but hes been waiting now for two years. Cant get him approved.The senators left Washington until at least May 4th. The Constitution provides a mechanism for the President to fill positions in such circumstances  the recess appointment, its called  the Senates practice of dabbling into socalled pro forma sessions where no one is even there. It has prevented me from using the constitutional authority that were giving  that were given under the recess provisions.The Senate should either fulfill its duty and vote on my nominees or it should formally adjourn so that I can make recess appointments. We have a tremendous number of people that have to come into government  and now more so than ever before, because of the virus and the problem. We have to do it, and we have to do whatever we have to do. Theyve made it very, very difficult to run government. I dont think any administration has done anywhere near what weve done in three and a half years.But every block  every week, they put up roadblocks, whether its Russia, Russia, Russia, or whether its impeachment hoax, or whatever it may be. Its always roadblocks and a waste of time.If the House will not agree to that adjournment, I will exercise my constitutional authority to adjourn both chambers of Congress. The current practice of leaving town while conducting phony pro forma sessions is a dereliction of duty that the American people cannot afford during this crisis. It is a scam, what they do. Its a scam, and everybody knows it. And its been that way for a long time. And perhaps its never done before  its never been done before nobody is even sure if it has. But were going to do it. We need these people here. We need people for this crisis, and we dont want to play any more political games.Ive been waiting for two and a half years, three years, for some of these people. And theyre great people. They left law firms. They left jobs. They gave up everything to do it. And theyve been waiting for three years, two and a half years, two years, one year to get approved. Its ridiculous. And everyone knows theyre going to be approved. But theres only so many hours in the day, when you go through judges and you go through a lengthy hearings on judges that they know should be approved immediately. And they could do it in one session, one  and they could do it in one hour. And instead, it takes them many days.In order to advance the health and security of our nation and all nations, as we announced yesterday, the U.S. government has put a hold on funding to the WHO  World Health Organization  pending a review of the organizations coverup and mismanagement of the coronavirus outbreak. Over the objections of the WHO, we took decisive action and early lifesaving action to suspend travel from China. They didnt want to do it. They were angry that we did it. It was early on. They were angry that we did it. Took them a long time to realize what was going on, but I have a feeling they know exactly what was going on.Tragically, other nations put their trust in the WHO and they didnt do any form of ban. And you see what happened to Italy. You see what happened to Spain. You see what happened to France. WHOs guidance had failed to control their borders at a very crucial phase, quickly unleashing the contagion around the world. That was a horrible, tragic mistake  or perhaps they knew. Im sure they didnt know the gravity of it, but perhaps they knew. Because if they knew the gravity, that would be an even worse offense.To ease the economic pain of millions of American families, weve now processed 300 billion in loans to more than 1 million small businesses through the Paycheck Protection Program. This action has saved millions of American jobs. Its been an incredible success. And they want to replenish it now, but, again, the Democrats dont want to do that. This is money that goes to the workers of our country.Phase one was 350 billion dollars. And now phase two, we want to do 250 billion. This goes to workers and it goes to small businesses so we can save all the small businesses around our nation.Mike McFarland from Nebraska recently said this historic relief has been a godsend for his small factory, and the 136 Americans who work there. He saved those jobs. Another small business owner, Tim Miller from Oklahoma, called the program a total lifesaver for his autorepair shops four employees. Stories like these underscore why Congress must replenish the Paycheck Protection Program immediately. The Republicans want to do it they want to do it immediately. They want to do it now. And the Democrats are stopping it.A short time ago, CDC issued public health guidelines for critical industries. In a few moments, Agricultural Secretary Sonny Perdue will elaborate on how these guidelines apply to our nations dedicated workers in the food processing profession  because its a profession. Its incredible what they do food processing. And theyre keeping our grocery stores full. The shelves are not bare like the shelves that I inherited when we took over the stockpile  the medical stockpile, where the shelves were bare. The cupboard was bare, I say.Tomorrow, Ill also be leading a call with elected officials who will consult with my administration as we work to restore our economy to full speed. And we really think, with all of the stimulus and all of the pentup demand, were going to have an economy that really comes back quickly. And wed like to see it more than match what we had before. What we had before was a miracle. And we think this is going to be even more than a miracle. Were going to do it because we have the greatest people in the world.Well also be speaking to Americas governors tomorrow and then well be announcing exactly whats happening. You already know well be opening up states  some states much sooner than others. And we think some of the states can actually open up before the deadline of May 1st. And I think that that will be a very exciting time indeed.Governors are looking forward  theyre chomping at the bit to get going. Again, not all states are the same. Theyre very different. Some are having very little problems. Some have done such a good job that they have very little problem and theyre ready to go. So, Vice President Pence and I will be speaking with the governors tomorrow. Well be discussing procedures.Today, I spoke with the leaders of many of our nations most renowned companies and organizations on how to achieve the full resurgence of the American economy. My discussions included top leaders in health and healthcare, transportation technology, financial services, food, beverages, hospitality, real estate, retail, agriculture, construction, energy, labor, manufacturing, and sports industries.We want to get our country open again. We want to have our sports leagues open. You want to watch sports. Its important. We miss sports. We miss everything. We want to get back.These experts and innovators provided extremely productive feedback on how to safely reboot our economy. They gave us a lot of great ideas. We spoke to a lot of very, very smart people  the highest of the hightech. The level of I