Rose Garden614 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Please. Very importantly, Id like to begin by saying that weve just reached agreement  the Secretary of Treasury, Steve Mnuchin, with the major airlines, all of our great airlines  to participate in a Payroll Support Program. This agreement will fully support airline industry workers, preserve the vital role airlines play in our economy, and protect taxpayers. Our airlines are now in good shape, and they will get over a very tough period of time that was not caused by them.The United States is continuing to make substantial progress in our war against the virus. We grieve at every precious life that has been lost to the invisible enemy, but through the darkness, we can see the rays of light. We see that tunnel. And at the end of that tunnel, we see light. Were starting to see it.More than ever before, weve held our rate, the numbers  everything weve done. Weve been very, very strong on it and very powerful on it. You look at whats happening in other countries  Spain, Italy, United Kingdom. Were working with them. Were trying to help them, especially with ventilators. Theyve been calling a lot. They need ventilators so badly.Fifteen percent of counties within the United States have zero cases, and many counties within the United States have a very small number of cases. Large sections of our country are really looking at other sections and saying, Wow, that looks bad. But they dont have the problem.I salute the American people for following our guidelines on social distancing  even you people. Its so different looking out there when I look at you. Their devotion, your devotion is saving lives.Today Im instructing my administration to halt funding of the World Health Organization while a review is conducted to assess the World Health Organizations role in severely mismanaging and covering up the spread of the coronavirus. Everybody knows whats going on there.American taxpayers provide between 400 million and 500 million per year to the WHO. In contrast, China contributes roughly 40 million a year and even less. As the organizations leading sponsor, the United States has a duty to insist on full accountability.One of the most dangerous and costly decisions from the WHO was its disastrous decision to oppose travel restrictions from China and other nations. They were very much opposed to what we did. Fortunately, I was not convinced and suspended travel from China, saving untold numbers of lives. Thousands and thousands of people would have died.Had other nations likewise suspended travel from China, countless more lives would have been saved. Instead, look at the rest of the world. Look at parts of Europe. Other nations and regions, who followed WHO guidelines and kept their borders open to China, accelerated the pandemic all around the world. Many countries said, Were going to listen to the WHO, and they have problems the likes of which they cannot believe. Nobody can believe.The decision of other major countries to keep travel open was one of the great tragedies and missed opportunities from the early days. The WHOs attack on travel restrictions put political correctness above lifesaving measures. Travel bans work for the same reason that quarantines work. Pandemics depend on humantohuman transmission. Border control is fundamental to virus control.Since its establishment in 1948, the American people have generously supported the World Health Organization to provide better health outcomes for the world and, most importantly, to help prevent global health crises. With the outbreak of the COVID19 pandemic, we have deep concerns whether Americas generosity has been put to the best use possible.The reality is that the WHO failed to adequately obtain that and share information in a timely and transparent fashion.The world depends on the WHO to work with countries to ensure that accurate information about international health threats is shared in a timely manner, and if its not, to independently to tell the world the truth about what is happening.The WHO failed in this basic duty and must be held accountable. Its time, after all of these decades. The WHO failed to investigate credible reports from sources in Wuhan that conflicted directly with the Chinese governments official accounts. There was credible information to suspect humantohuman transmission in December 2019, which should have spurred the WHO to investigate, and investigate immediately.Through the middle of January, it parroted and publicly endorsed the idea that there was not humantohuman transmission happening despite reports and clear evidence to the contrary. The delays the WHO experienced in declaring a public health emergency caused valuable time, tremendous amounts of time. More time was lost in the delay it took to get a team of international experts in to examine the outbreak, which we wanted to do, which they should have done. The inability of the WHO to obtain virus samples, to this date, has deprived the scientific community of essential data.New data that emerges across the world on a daily basis points to the unreliability of the initial reports, and the world received all sorts of false information about transmission and mortality.The silence of the WHO on the disappearance of scientific researchers and doctors and on new restrictions on the sharing of research into the origins of COVID19 in the country of origin is deeply concerning, especially when we put up, by far, the largest amount of money. Not even close.Had the WHO done its job to get medical experts into China to objectively assess the situation on the ground and to call out Chinas lack of transparency, the outbreak could have been contained at its source, with very little death  very little death  and certainly very little death by comparison. This would have saved thousands of lives and avoided worldwide economic damage.Instead, the WHO willingly took Chinas assurances to face value, and they took it just at face value and defended the actions of the Chinese government, even praising China for its socalled transparency. I dont think so. The WHO pushed Chinas misinformation about the virus, saying it was not communicable and there was no need for travel bans. They told us, when we put on our travel ban  a very strong travel ban  there was no need to do it. Dont do it. They actually fought us.The WHOs reliance on Chinas disclosures likely caused a 20fold increase in cases worldwide, and it may be much more than that.The WHO has not addressed a single one of these concerns nor provided a serious explanation that acknowledges its own mistakes, of which there were many.America and the world have chosen to rely on the WHO for accurate, timely, and independent information to make important public health recommendations and decisions. If we cannot trust that this is what we will receive from the WHO, our country will be forced to find other ways to work with other nations to achieve public health goals. Well have no choice but to do that.Our countries are now experiencing  you look all over the world  tremendous death and economic devastation because those tasked with protecting us by being truthful and transparent failed to do so. It would have been so easy to be truthful. And so much death has been caused by their mistakes.We will continue to engage with the WHO to see if it can make meaningful reforms. For the time being, we will redirect global health and directly work with others. All of the aid that we send will be discussed at very, very powerful lettel sic  letters and with very powerful and influential groups and smart groups  medically, politically, and every other way.And well be discussing it with other countries and global health partners what do we do with all of that money that goes to WHO. And maybe WHO will reform, and maybe they wont. But well be able to see.As you know, in other countries hit hard by the virus, hospitals have been tragically forced to ration medical care and the use of ventilators. But due to our early and aggressive action, the skill of our healthcare workers, and the resilience of our healthcare system, no hospital in America has been forced to deny any patient access to a ventilator  with all of the talk youve heard, where some states wanted 40,000 ventilators. I said, That doesnt work, 40,000. And they ended up with seven or eight thousand, and they had no problem. Forty thousand ventilators for one state is ridiculous.The scariest day of my life was about a month ago when, after a long day of meetings, my team told me that we were going to be needing 130,000 ventilators that we were short hundreds of thousands of ventilators. This is the system we inherited. I had governors requesting unreasonable sums that the federal government just didnt have.And you look at the states. The states didnt have  the states were not prepared. I knew that every person who needed a ventilator and didnt get one would die. And thats what we were told They would die. I saw another countrys doctors having to make decisions on who got a ventilator and who didnt. And I knew that this would be a defining challenge of the crisis. Those that didnt get ventilators were said to be in a position only of one alternative  and that was death. Would we be able to prevent Americans from dying because we couldnt get them ventilators and the ventilators that they needed and they needed immediately? I instructed my team to move Heaven and Earth to make sure that this didnt happen.We started to smartly ration and distribute the ventilators that we had and that others had. And I got daily updates on the supply we had from requests coming in and people wanting to have updates. We had a great group of people working on it.I instructed my team to use the Defense Production Act. And the Defense Production Act was used very powerfully  more powerfully than anybody would know. In fact, so powerfully that, for the most part, we didnt have to officially take it out  it was a hammer it was a very powerful hammer  in order to manufacture as many ventilators as possible.Last year, America manufactured, from a dead start, 30,000 ventilators. And this year, the number will be over 150,000 ventilators. It could be as high as 200,000  far more than well ever need. So well be able to stockpile. Well be able to talk to states about stockpiling.These are highquality ventilators. We had a choice We could do inexpensive, less productive ventilators or highquality. Weve done a highquality ventilator.So we should have anywhere from 150 to 200,000 ventilators. In addition to that, we have 10,000 ventilators right now in the federal stockpile ready to move should we need them  we might not  should we need them in New York or New Jersey or in Louisiana or in Illinois or any other state that may need them if we have a surge.Id like to ask Adam Boehler to come up and just say a few words. Hes done a fantastic job  a young man who worked 24 hours a day on handling this situation. And Id just like to have  have Adam, wherever he may be, come up and say a few words.Adam, please. Thank you very much.MR. BOEHLER Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. At your direction, this country has worked hard over the past few weeks to ramp up ventilator production through all means possible. Thousands of ventilators are coming in now monthly, with over 100,000 by the end of June.At the same time, there are over 60,000 ventilators in our hospitals right now that are not in use. Knowing this and at your direction, we reached out to the American Hospital Association to design a system that allows hospitals to lend ventilators to other hospitals right when they need it.Within the past week alone, 20 top health systems have signed up for this Dynamic Ventilator Reserve, representing over 4,000 ventilators. Not only do we have top academic systems, like Cleveland Clinic and Mayo Clinic, but we also have top health systems from New York City, New Orleans, Washington State, and California. Over a week ago, these places would have needed help, but now they are here to help. Theres been no American that has needed a ventilator that has not received one.This Dynamic Virtual Ventilator Reserve, combined with our strategic stockpile will ensure that this is always the case. Id like to thank the President for his leadership and directive to focus on publicprivate partnerships like this one. Id also like to thank Sam Hazen from HCA, Lloyd Dean from CommonSpirit for leading this effort with the AHA and the Federation of American Hospitals.These have been difficult times. A few weeks ago, the Vice President came into my office and he reminded us of the power of the resilience of the American people and of private companies. We needed it that day, Mr. Vice President.This partnership is another example of Americans helping Americans. Thank you.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Fantastic job.MR. BOEHLER Thank you, sir.THE PRESIDENT Id shake his hand, but Im not allowed to. Times have changed, havent they? Thank you very much. You did a fantastic job. Were very proud of you  you and your whole team. Thank you.Today, we are taking further action to maximize our oversupply and available ventilators. This afternoon, I met with the leaders  the top people of many of Americas big, powerful, beautiful, and, you know, very, very important hospitals and hospital associations who join us today. We had a great meeting, learned a lot. And theyve been going through a lot and theyve been doing a fantastic job, as everybody here will attest.Im pleased to announce that my administration is partnering with the hospitals across the country to create an innovative new system called the Dynamic Ventilator Reserve, so that were going to have tremendous numbers of ventilators that were able to help our states with at a later date if theres ever a problem like this, which we hope to God will never happen again. It was 1917, 1918. Thats a long time ago. We hope it never happens again.And Id like to ask Rick Pollack, CEO of American Hospital Association Sam Hazen, CEO of HCA Healthcare  thats the largest in the United States Warner Thomas, CEO of Ochsner Health. And if I could, Mihal  you  are you here from Cleveland Clinic? Somebody? Good. Thank you. Come on up, folks. Please.Thank you. Say a few words please.MR. POLLACK Thank you very much, Mr. President. We appreciate the opportunity to work with you and your team on the Dynamic Ventilator Reserve program. This will provide a really important mechanism for us in serving our patients and communities by ensuring that this vital equipment will be available to critical areas that are in need.You know, as this battle against this disease has affected the country a little bit unevenly, the rates of infection, hospitalization, and ICU use varies from one region to another. In some places with lower infection rates, some ventilators may not be in use, while other areas are potentially stretched beyond their capacity. The database of available ventilators that we are creating will allow us to flex so that we can make sure that available equipment can be shared with those in need.We appreciate the leadership of the health systems that are here today that has stepped forward. And Adam mentioned a few  I dont know if he caught Dr. Fritz Francois from NYU Langone, and David Dill, the CEO of LifePoint, as well.We appreciate the work of the administration in helping us find innovative solutions to ensure the best care for our patients. Well continue to work with hospitals and health systems across the country to add to this reserve further. Your team has provided us with important leadership, and we look forward to working with you in making this a success.Thank you, Mr. President.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much.MR. HAZEN Thank you, Mr.President, Mr.Vice President, Adam, the team. I stand here before you, in front of our 285,000 colleagues who provide care to patients every day across the country.One of the guiding principles we had when we went into this COVID19 battle was to find partnerships  partnerships with other components of the industry, partnerships with other health systems, but partnerships with governments, both local and federal. And were proud to be a part of this privatepublic sector partnership, and I think its going to do great good for the community.So thank you very much.THE PRESIDENT Great job. Thank you.MR. THOMAS Thank you, Mr.President. Its great to have Ochsner Health be part of this program. We certainly have been a recipient, and the state of Louisiana has been a recipient of help getting ventilators to our state and Ochsner Health.Were currently taking care of about 60 percent of the COVID patients in New Orleans, and we did see a spike over the past few weeks. But were starting to get on the other side of that and heading in the right direction.I also want to thank you personally for helping Ochsner Health a couple weeks ago. We were running short on surgical gowns, and you and your team were able to direct some to New Orleans, which was helpful to us, and other hospitals around the New Orleans area.So were excited to be part of this Dynamic Ventilator Reserve, and we are proud to be part of that and help other communities around the country. Thank you.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much.DR. MIHALJEVIC Thank you, Mr.President, for the invitation here. On behalf of the Cleveland Clinic, I would just like to offer a slightly different story about a COVID pandemic.In our home state of Ohio, with an early institution of social distancing, our ability to scale up the testing and ramping out capacity, we have actually seen a stable number of patients over the last 8 to 10 days. Only 160 patients have been hospitalized with COVID infection in Cleveland Clinic Health System.Were also very grateful for the support from our state government, as well from our federal government. This is a battle where were all in together. We coordinate our efforts, share our resources, and work together as one.Im firmly convinced that we can do a lot of good when we work together. Thank you very much for having us.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Great job.DR. MIHALJEVIC Thank you, sir.THE PRESIDENT Thank you. Great job.That was a terrific meeting. And thank you all for being here. Thank you very much.The United States has far more ICU beds per capita than any other nation. We have 34.7 ICU beds per 100,000 people, which is the best there is, compared with roughly 12.5 beds per 100,000 in Italy, 11.6 beds in France, 9.7 beds in Spain. Think of that  34.7, we have  and 6.6 the UK. There are more than 60,000 ventilators at hospitals and other healthcare facilities that are not in use at this moment. They didnt need them. We got a lot of them out, and they didnt need them. And thats a good thing that they didnt need them.But a lot of good brainpower was involved in making a lot of fantastic decisions. I want to thank our Vice President for the task force. And I want to thank all members of your task force on having done an incredible job. You really have done an incredible job. Thank you, Mike, very much.Through this new partnership with the hospitals, unused ventilators will voluntarily lend them. Where they have unused ventilators, they will voluntary lend those ventilators to other hospitals and other areas of greater need.Within the last several days, more than 20 of our nations largest health systems have already pledged more than 4,000 ventilators should we need them. And Ive been told that if they need more, there are more there. Were going to be helping very soon when the supply really starts pouring in, which is  which started, but will really start about less than a month.Were going to be helping other countries, and they need it very badly. They have no chance without these ventilators. They have to have ventilators.As we continue our medical war against the virus, the FDA has now authorized the first test developed by researchers from Rutgers University that can use saliva from patients. Its the first one. These tests can be selfadministered by patients in healthcare settings, which will reduce exposure for medical workers and save personal protective equipment. Rutgers will begin processing 10,000 tests daily.So, by using saliva  thats a first  theyll be able to do things, in terms of speed and ease, that we havent been able to do before. So, a lot of great innovation is taking place during this period of time. And thats innovation. I call it innovation under pressure. Theres a big difference. Innovation under pressure. Right? Cleveland Clinic knows all about that.As we prepare for the next phase of this great struggle, we must also do everything in our power to restore prosperity for the American worker. Theres tremendous interest and excitement surrounding the administrations efforts to get the economy roaring once again, and I think its going to roar once it gets open. I think its going to go up tremendously.You see whats happening with the stock market already, because a lot of the very smart financial people  the great minds  theyre looking at the stock and theyre saying, Wow. Because they really  what theyre really seeing is how were doing. If we werent doing well, the market wouldnt be at a level that it is today. They have a lot of confidence that were doing the right thing and that our country is going to be open soon and our country is going to be booming.Weve had requests to participate from the best in the world as we share their enthusiasm to get our country going. So I thank them for wanting to contribute. And we look forward to speaking with many industry leaders, seeking their input on how we can return to what was, until very recently, the greatest economy anywhere in the world  and I can say the greatest economy in the history of the world. Theres never been an economy like we had.Just a little bit more than a month ago, we set every record you could set more people working than weve ever had working before  almost 160 million the best unemployment numbers weve ever had and the best employment numbers weve ever had. Everybody was doing well. Stock market at a record  142 days it hit a record. And I think were going to top those records, okay? And I think were going to top them soon, once we get rid of the invisible enemy, which will happen.The plans to reopen the country are close to being finalized, and we will soon be sharing details and new guidelines with everybody. I will be speaking to all 50 governors very shortly. And I will then be authorizing each individual governor, of each individual state, to implement a reopening and a very powerful reopening plan of their state at a time and in a manner as most appropriate.The day will be very close because certain states, as you know, are in much different condition and in a much different place than other states. Its going to be very, very close. Maybe even before the date of May 1st. So that will be for some states. Actually, there are over 20 that are in extremely good shape. And we think were going to be able to get them open fairly quickly, and then others will follow.The federal government will be watching them very closely, and well be there to help. Well be there to help in many different ways, as weve been  where we built hospital beds at a number that nobody has ever seen before, where we did the ventilators that we just discussed at a level that nobody has ever seen before. Nobody can even believe.Other foreign countries  even powerful countries  cant believe what we were able to do with ventilators. Big, powerful countries. Big producing countries cant believe what we were able to do. We will hold the governors accountable. But again, were going to be working with them to make sure it works really well.Now, we have a list of people that Ill be speaking to over the next very short period of time  in many cases, tomorrow. Were going to have elected officials, and well be submitting that list to you within the next 24 hours. But we have a list of different industries that Ill be discussing by  meeting by telephone, because we dont want people traveling right now the American Farm Bureau Federation  Zippy Duvall, Cisco Systems, Tyson Foods, Perdue Farms, Cargill, Archer Daniels Midland Company, Corteva, Tractor Supply Company, Seaboard Corporation, Grimmway Farms, Mountaire Farms, and others in the agricultural businessIn banking, its Bank of America  Brian Moynihan has been great JPMorgan Chase, Jamie Dimon Goldman Sachs Citigroup Wells Fargo U.S. Bancorp Morgan Stanley, James Gorman Grand Rapids State Bank Southern Bancorp  all great institutions with lots to say and lots of good ideas.And if you look at how Paycheck has been working out, the numbers are incredible. And I hope Congress is going to be able to supplement the amount of money going to our workers. I hope theyre able to get that done very quickly because its been an incredible success, and many are already spending that money, and the money has been distributed at numbers that nobody believed possible for this short period of time. It was only a week ago. But a lot of money has been distributed already. Its going to keep our small businesses open.The construction labor workforce International Union of Operating Engineers, Jim Callahan North America Building Trades Union, Sean McGarvey. These are a lot of friends of mine. The Laborers International Union of North America, Terry OSullivan International Brotherhood of Teamsters, James Hoffa National Electrical Contractors Association, David LongBechtel FluorNational Association of Homebuilders Association of Builders and Contractors Associated General ContractorsRichard Trumka, AFLCIO G.H. Palmer. So these are some of the unions  pretty much almost all of the ones that will be on the line.In defense, we have Lockheed Martin, Honeywell, Northrop Grumman. These are all the top of each company  CEOs, chairmans, presidents. Raytheon, General Dynamics.Energy  we had a tremendous success recently with energy over the weekend. It finished with tremendous credit going to Russia and Saudi Arabia. And it could be as much as 20 million barrels a day are cut so that we can get rid of some of the tremendous excess oil thats been produced because of the fact that the virus just knocked out almost 50 percent of the business. Its been an amazing achievement. Some people say one of the biggest oil deals ever made. Maybe the biggest oil deal ever made, theyre saying. I didnt know that.But we were involved in getting that done, and it was very important. Were going to save hundreds of thousands of jobs for our energy industry  Texas and North Dakota, Oklahoma, all of our different energy states. Its great. So were very happy about it. I want to thank everybody. We had the  its called OPEC Plus. Thats OPEC Plus, meaning some nations outside of OPEC.And I also want to thank the President of Mexico because he was  he was terrific. He showed great dexterity and flexibility in getting the deal done. I want to thank him very much.On the energy front, we had Exxon Mobil, Continental Resources, Chevron, Southern Company, Alabama Power, ConocoPhillips, Occidental Petroleum, Kinder Morgan Hess Corporation, Pearl Group, and a few others. Big ones. Great ones.Financial services, we have Blackstone, Stephen Schwarzman Paulson  Company, John Paulson Citadel, Ken Griffin Elliott Management, Paul Singer Vista Equity Partners, Robert Smith Fidelity Investments, Abigail Johnson MasterCard Visa Chubb Sequoia Stephens, Warren Stevens  great Charles Schwab, Chuck Schwab, who will be here by phone.Food and beverage National Restaurant Association McDonalds Darden Restaurants CocaCola Pepsi Cola ChickfilA Subway Bloomin Brands Yum! Brands Papa Johns Wendys Waffle House Starbucks Wolfgang Puck Thomas Keller JeanGeorges, my friend JeanGeorges and Daniele. You know them.From the transportation world FedEx, Fred Smith Allegiant United Airlines, Oscar Munoz UPS, David Abney J.B. Hunt YRC Worldwide Crowley Maritime  incredible, big, powerful shippers and transportation companies.In telecommunications, we have the legendary John Malone of Liberty Media Verizon TMobile Charter Communications and Brian Roberts of Comcast. Thank you all very much.Healthcare New York Presbyterian, Jerry Speyer  a friend of mine HCA Healthcare, Sam Hazen. Thank you, Sam. Just met with Sam. Ascension Health, CommonSpirit Health,Community Health Systems, Trinity Health, Cardinal Health, McKesson, 3M. Thank you, Mike Roman, for helping us with face masks. It worked out well for everybody. Procter and Gamble, Abbott Laboratories, Johnson  Johnson, Merck, Pfizer, Eli Lilly, Thermo Fisher Scientific  theyve been helping us incredibly with testing. Gilead Sciences, AbbVie, Regeneron, Biogen, Roche  and Roche has been fantastic on testing, the job theyve done. I have to call them out. They have really  they have stepped up like very few. Anthem United Health Group Aetna Cigna and Humana  all the big ones.The tech companies  we have the right ones Apple, we have Tim Cook Google, Sundar. Thank you, Sundar Oracle, Larry Ellison and Safra Catz Salesforce, Marc Benioff SAP  SAP,Jen Morgan Microsoft, Satya  great job hes done. Thank you, Satya. Facebook, Mark Zuckerberg IBM Intel Qualcomm Cisco Advanced Micro Devices Broadcom. Incredible companies. Companies that no other country will catch, if theyre smart. They have to be smart.But Ive dealt with a lot of different countries and I will say that no  the respect for Silicon Valley and our tech companies  theres nobody even close to our tech companies. They cant catch them. So they try and buy them, but we sort of put an end to a lot of that.In sports  we want to get our sports back, so importantly. These will be some separate calls. Some will be together, by the way  lists  and some will be separate. But we have to get our sports back. Im tired of watching baseball games that are 14 years old. But I havent actually had too much time to watch. I would say maybe I watch one batter and then I get back to work.The NBA  Adam Silver. The Major League Baseball  we miss our base  well, this is baseball season right here. Rob Manfred, thank you very much. NFL  Roger Goodell. Thank you, Roger. UFC, Dana White. Great Dana White. PGA, Jay Monahan LPGA, Michael Whan USDA, Patrick Galbraith. Major League Soccer, Don Garber WWE, the great Vince McMahon NASCAR, Lesa Kennedy. Thank you, Lesa. NHL, Gary Bettman from the New England Patriots, Bob Kraft Dallas Cowboys, Jerry Jones Dallas Mavericks, Mark Cuban.And some of the thought leaders that were going to have  and theres some others that we are having were just waiting to hear. But everybodys saying yes, I must say. John Allison Heritage Foundation, Kay Coles James  great person. Hoover Institute, Condoleezza Rice  another great person. Art Laffer Steve Moore Steve Forbes Larry Lindsey Katherine Reynolds Scott Gottlieb  just spoke with Scott Jim DeMint  and Jim has been a terrific friend Bill Haggerty and Ray Washburne.And religious leaders will be coming on Friday. Well be speaking to  and were going to have a separate list, but we have tremendous enthusiasm to meet by our great religious leaders. We have incredible people and they want to  they want to be a part. And well be talking about churches and well be talking about opening. And well be talking about things that are very important to a lot of people, including me. Were going to find out how were doing in that regard.So those are the names that we have on our list. Theyre the names that are, I think, the best and the smartest, the brightest. And theyre going to give us some ideas. But were all set, as I said. The governors are going to be opening up their states. Theyre going to declare when  theyre going to know when. Some can open very, very shortly  if not almost immediately. Well give a date. But the date is going to be in the very near future.So well get it open. Individual states will  and the governors will be held accountable. If they need things, well help them get those things, but we want them to do their testing. We want them  because theyre equipped to do testing. Weve created incredible tests and weve done more testing than anybody has ever done in the world right now. And we  we had a broken system and now we have a great system. We have a system where other countries are coming to us and saying, We want to get some of those tests.I want to thank Abbott, because Abbott came up with the first simpler tests. The first one was rough. If you were  I think it was more of an operation than a test. Laughter. The first one was  for anybody that took it, it was not easy. But now we have a very simple test with Abbott. Now we have saliva, we have lots of other things that are happening. But we have millions of tests.The governors are responsible. They have to take charge. They have to do a great job. And were going to suggest that they check people, through tests or otherwise, coming into their states and they run their states very strong. Eventually, we wont have to do that. Eventually, this will be gone. But, for a while, were going to do it. So theyre going to take charge  at their borders, theyre going to take charge of people coming in. And maybe, to an extent, depending on what they work out with their nearby state, it may be also people leaving. And theyll be able to do that very shortly.Well be announcing a date, but itll be very short. And, frankly, itll be at a time that will be earlier than the deadline that we imposed  the end of April. So we think that some of the governors will be in really good shape to open up even sooner than that. Well speak to them. But were all set and were counting on the governors to do a great job.Others are going to have to take a longer period of time until theyre in a position to say, Were ready to go. And thats okay. We understand that. Some of the governors have a very tough situation. But in almost all cases, its all starting to come down. Were very proud of the job everybody has done.And if you look at the numbers  so the minimum, as you  as portrayed  Deborah is here. Dr. Birx has been fantastic. The minimum was 100,000 deaths. And I hope to be substantially under the minimum, meaning we all hope  Mike, right?  we all hope to be substantially under.We did the right thing because, otherwise, it would have been  the projections are 2 million people. The actual projection was 2.2 million people. And if you cut it in half, that would be 1.1 million people. Thats many more. Thats double the Civil War. And if you cut that in half, youre talking 5 or 600,000 people. Thats what we lost in the Civil War. And thats cutting it, cutting it, cutting it. And were not going to  that would not be acceptable. It would not be acceptable. Nothing is  one life isnt acceptable, but we werent given that option.So Im confident that these respected people that I just read from the list will give us some great ideas, in addition to what the governors have learned. The governors have learned a lot. Ive spoken to governors that, at the beginning, it was a contentious relationship, and now its a very friendly relationship and a really great relationship. And Im proud to say that some of them, I think, are friends. In some cases, theyre Democrats, but I think they like me, and I actually like them. Ill tell you who they are someday.But were all getting along and we all want to do the right thing. And I think theyre going to do a great job of leading their individual states. Itll be a beautiful thing to watch. Theyll go and rely on their mayors and their local town officials. They bring it right down.And Washington shouldnt be doing that. We cant be thinking about a Walmart parking lot thats 2,000 miles away where were doing testing, but a governor of a state can, and a mayor can, and right down the line. So its going to be  I think its going to be a terrific system. And if were unhappy with the state, were going to let them know were unhappy. And if theyre not doing the job and they cant get the job done, and, for some reason, things are happening that were not going to like  like the numbers are heading in a wrong direction  well have to do something thats very ser  very serious. Well have to, maybe, close them up and start all over again. But I dont think were going to have to do that.I think the governors are going to come out at a time that  and these will be individual dates. And the governors are going to come out at a time when theyre ready. Some can come out very, very shortly. And we look forward to watching that process. So I think its going to be a very beautiful process.Our discussions will focus with the people that were dealing with on rejuvenating the economy, and always health. Always health. Health and life. Living is number one. But the rejuvenated economy  and I think its going to go quickly.Well be utilizing our robust testing capacity for the governors. Well be giving them what they need, if they dont have it themselves. We hope, by now, theyll be able to have it themselves. We were hoping they would have had it themselves early on, but they werent. But such great advances have been made. So well be dealing with them on that.And we  they can rely on us very strongly. Theyre going to be relying on us, I think, for some help. And were there  whether its building hospital beds, which I dont think theyre going to need. You look at Javits Center  a great, great job that the Army Corps of Engineers did FEMA got involved. We actually ended up sending our medical people. That was not a COVID19 center, and they asked, Could you do that?And then even after we did that, it was not used very much, meaning they didnt have to use it nearly to the extent that they thought when they conceived it. It wasnt that they made a mistake nobody made a mistake. We built it  Id rather have too much than too little. Err on the side of caution. And its really incredible what they did, including the two ships  the two great ships.And I just want to thank a lot of really great people, a lot of great politicians. And, again, were going to be announcing the political list tomorrow. And on there, were going to have a lot of senators.And were going to be having a meeting with the governors probably on Thursday  a meeting by teleconference. And a lot of things will be discussed and some of the details will be discussed. But we want them to do an incredible job of running their states. I think theyll do an incredible job too. After having gotten to know so many of them, I think each one of them will do an incredible job.And, again, the federal government is there. We have ventilators if they need them. We have beds if they need them. We have hospitals if they need them. We have a testing capacity thats now second to none. Were  again, other countries are calling us. Countries that you thought were doing well are calling us for help on testing. So were there to help.And, with that, if you have a few questions, well take them. And if not, that would be okay too.Yeah, go ahead please. Jeff?