James S. Brady Press Briefing RoomApril 13, 2020549 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Thank you very much, everyone. My administration will do everything possible to help those communities get back on their feet. Were speaking with the governors and representatives. FEMA is already on its way, and they got there  as soon as we heard the word, I said, Get out there. So FEMA is there, and you know the great job that FEMA does. Its, really, something very special.So we just want to say Warmest condolences, and were with you all the way. Its a tough deal. That was a bad, bed level five. That was a bad group. Thats as high as it gets. It was a bad grouping of tornadoes. Something thats something incredible, the power  the horrible, destructive power.America is continuing to make critical progress in our war against the virus. Over the weekend, the number of daily new infections remained flat nationwide. Flat. Hospitalizations are slowing in hotspots like New York, New Jersey, Michigan, and Louisiana. This is clear evidence that our aggressive strategy to combat the virus is working and that Americans are following the guidelines. Its been incredible what theyve done.You looked at the charts, and the charts are  and the models from early on  predictions were 100 thousand and 120,000 people look like. If they did well, they were going to unfortunately perish. And were going to be, hopefully, way, way below that number. So that will be a sign of people doing things right, but its still just a horrible thing all over the world. A hundred and eightyfour countries.This is all a tribute to our wonderful healthcare advisors and experts who have been with us right from the beginning. We appreciate it so much. In fact, Dr. Fauci is here. Maybe I could ask Tony to say a few words before we go any further.Thank you very much. Tony, please.DR. FAUCI Thank you, Mr. President. Just one  a couple of things, and then I just want to make a comment about something that happened yesterday.Youre going to hear from Dr. Birx soon about the numbers that weve been talking about and how things are starting to balance off. And I think the more, as we go by each day, I think were going to see  and again, I never like to get ahead of myself or of Dr. Birx, but it looks like even though weve had a really bad week last week  remember, when I was speaking to you before, I was saying this was really a bad week  theres still going to be a lot of deaths, but were starting to see in some areas now that kind of flattening, particularly in a place that was a hotspot like New York. Thats the first thing.The second thing is that I had a really very, very productive conversation with the Congressional Black Caucus this morning, for about an hour, and they really wanted to know what exactly are we going to be doing in the immediate, as well as the long range, about the health disparities and the discrepancies both in infection and in poor outcome in the minorities in general, but specifically African American.And, I mean, I made it very clear to them that what we have to do is focus on getting the resources where the vulnerable are, to be able to get testing done, to be able to get the appropriate identification, where proper and where appropriate, to isolate and contact trace if we can, but also to help mitigate in a community that is suffering and suffering much more disproportionately.So I just wanted to get that out of the way.The other point I wanted to make is that I had an interview yesterday that I was asked a hypothetical question. And hypothetical questions sometimes can get you into some difficulty because its what would have or could have. The nature of the hypothetical question was If, in fact, we had mitigated earlier, could lives have been saved? And the answer to my question was, as I always do  and Im doing right now  perfectly honestly say, yes. I mean, obviously. If you  mitigation helps.Ive been up here many times telling you that mitigation works. So if mitigation works, and you instigated and  you initiated earlier, you will probably have saved more lives. If you initiated it later, you probably would have lost more lives, if you initiated at a certain time.That was taken as a way that maybe, somehow, something was at fault here.So let me tell you from my experience  and I can only speak from my own experience  is that we had been talking, before any meetings that we had, about the pros and the cons, the effectiveness or not, of strong mitigations. So discussions were going on mostly among the medical people about what that would mean.The first and only time that Dr. Birx and I went in and formally made a recommendation to the President to actually have a, quote, shutdown in the sense of  not really shutdown but to really have strong mitigation, we discussed it. Obviously, there would be concern by some that, in fact, that might have some negative consequences. Nonetheless, the President listened to the recommendation and went to the mitigation.The next second time that I went with Dr. Birx in  to the President and said, Fifteen days are not enough. We need to go thirty days, obviously, there were people who had a problem with that because of the potential secondary effects. Nonetheless, at that time, the President went with the health recommendations, and we extended it another 30 days.So I can only tell you what I know and what my recommendations were. But, clearly, as happens all the time, there were interpretations of that response to a hypothetical question that I just thought it would be very nice for me to clarify because I didnt have the chance to clarify.Thank you.