James S. Brady Press Briefing Room624 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Thank you very much, everybody. Id like to begin by saying that we just completed a meeting with the Secretary of Treasury Steve Mnuchin and Secretary of Transportation Elaine Chao on proposals regarding the airlines and the airline business.And were working very closely with a lot of different people. Well be probably putting out a proposal and giving them some of the details  some of the very powerful details over the weekend. Its moving along quickly. The airline business has been hit very hard, as everybody knows. And we are going to be in a position to do a lot to help them so that they keep their employees and they save their businesses.And thatll be taking place, I think you can say, over the weekend. We may even have discussions with some of the airlines or all of the airlines over the weekend. And I think its going to be a very acceptable package. Its a very big package and a very acceptable package. Itll be good for our country, good for the airlines, good for a lot of people.Likewise, I just spoke with the President of Russia, Vladimir Putin, and the King of Saudi Arabia, King Salman, and we had a big talk as to oil production and OPEC and making it so that our industry does well and the oil industry does better than its doing right now. Its  the numbers are so low that therell be layoffs all over the world. Therell be certainly layoffs in this country. And we dont want that to happen.We built a great, great energy business in the United States. So we have tens of thousands of jobs. We had a very good talk well see what happens. But as you know, OPEC met today, and I would say theyre getting close to a deal. Well soon find out. So that was a conversation we just had, so we had a busy hour and a half.And let me begin by expressing my sincere gratitude to the American people. Millions of Americans are making profound and difficult sacrifices in their own lives because they know it will save the lives of countless others. And thats exactly what its doing. You see whats happening and where we are and where we stand. And hopefully were going to be opening up  you can call it opening very, very  very, very soon, I hope.Together, our people are writing one of the most noble chapters in the proud history of our nation. Americans are also encouraged to learn that Boris Johnson, Prime Minister, has been moved out of intensive care. Thats a tremendous statement. And we continue to pray for him and his fast recovery. Thats a very  a very positive development.As the New York metropolitan area continues its battle against the outbreak, the full power of the federal government is there to support them. As you know, the Javits Center has now been fully converted into a 3,000bed hospital  one of thelargest anywhere in the country  and by the incredible professionals.I have to say, the Corps of Engineers, what they can do is just incredible. Theyve done a fantastic job and theyre building, nationwide, 21 temporary hospitals and care facilities, adding 17,000 hospital beds. And they did that all within a very short period of time. Its incredible what theyve done. Army Corps of Engineers. And FEMA has been fantastic.Our sweeping airlift operation to keep doctors and nurses supplied with protective equipment, Project Airbridge, continues to expand with more than 24 flights already completed and 49 additional flights now scheduled in the near future. So thats been very successful. And that gear and those outfits are being handed out. As they arrive, theyre going directly to point.The American medical system continues to perform beyond our highest expectations, reminding us that the United States is blessed with the most advanced healthcare and the most skilled healthcare workers anywhere in the planet. Other countries are looking to what were doing. And our testing operation has now become far and away the most sophisticated and the best anywhere.And we want to thank all of the heroes on the frontlines as they fight to save American lives. Were at the top of the hill. Pretty sure were at the top of the hill, and now were going downward. In some cases, weve already started that process.Earlier today, I spoke with hundreds of mental health leaders and advocates from around the country to discuss the vital work and the vital work theyre doing. We had the top doctors in the country, some international doctors. Mental health  big factor. Not only has the virus inflicted immense physical suffering on many people, but also mental and emotional suffering as well. Even though were staying physically apart, no American is alone, and were all in this together. But the mental health doctors and experts  it was a very great call. It was a very interesting call. Theyre working very hard.Were also seeing encouraging signs in our race to develop breakthrough treatments and therapies. Pfizer revealed today that it has found a promising new treatment that might prevent the virus from replicating. And that hopes  it hopes to begin testing in clinical trials very soon. Its going to be very, very soon. They have great  great feelings for this particular therapy, and they think that a lot of good things are happening.Through the FDAs Coronavirus Treatment Acceleration Program, 19 therapies and treatments are now being tested and 26 more are in the active planning or for clinical trial. So we have 19 therapies being tested currently, and 26 more are in the active planning for clinical trials. Thats a big statement. Thats a lot.Trials for Gileads antiviral drug, remdesivir, continue. And the company has also expanded emergency use for new patients getting good, early results, by the way. The companies that manufacture hydroxychloroquine are massively ramping up production.As you know, many people are recommending, strongly, ZPak be added  the ZPak  and also zinc. And the federal government continues to build our stockpiles and distribute millions of doses for doctors to use as they see fit.And Im pleased to inform you  were just having  a lot of good things are happening, but well have to see how that all works out. But we have  weve purchased and we have stockpiled millions and millions of doses, and were distributing it. Some states want it very badly. Michigan  we just sent a lot to Michigan and other areas.Im reporting today that we passed 2 million tests completed in the United States, first time  most anywhere in the country. Its a milestone for our country. Its a milestone anywhere. Nobody has done anywhere close. Our tests are highly sophisticated and highly accurate.At the same time, were making important progress on the economic front of this war. In a few moments, Secretary of Labor, Eugene Scalia, will explain new steps that were taking to ensure American workers swiftly receive unemployment and paid leave benefits and that employers protect the health and safety of all workers, including essential workers on the job, working very, very closely with workers and with employers.To provide further economic relief, the Federal Reserve announced this morning that itll provide up to 2.3 trillion in support to businesses, states, and local governments. Six hundred billion dollars in loans will be available for midsized businesses with up to 10,000 employees. And 500 billion will be available for states, counties with over 2 million residents and cities with a population of over 1 million.My administration is also working with Congress to replenish the very successful  incredibly successful the way its going  Paycheck Protection Program, which is allowing hundreds of thousands of small businesses to keep their workers on the payroll, meaning itll keep those businesses open.We need both Democrats and Republicans to come together to get this leg  the legislation completed. And it looks like its on its way, but we need both. And it should be for people that are working for the workers. And if you look and you see, we have a lot of people that are affected by that, and its a very positive development. So we have to get a bipartisan approval of that. And hopefully thatll happen.Today, the Department of Education is also announcing the availability of more than 6 billion in emergency grant funding to assist college students impacted by the cancellation of classes and the suspension of housing. A lot of people had a lot of things suspended housing is one of them.Previously, we waived student loan payments for six months. So, student loan payments have been waived for six months, and well discuss it after that. It may go further.Although this medical war has separated our citizens for a period of time, its also united our entire nation, I think I can say, like almost never before. Americans are moving forward with common purpose and shared resolve, determined to vanquish the virus and lift our nation to even greater heights. We are supremely confident in the magnificent future that awaits the American people.And with that, before I invite our Vice President  our great Vice President  and Gene Scalia to speak, well take a few questions. And then Im going back into negotiations on oil and on airlines.Yeah, please.