James S. Brady Press Briefing Room547 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. This is a holy week, when religious believers across the nation will observe Passover, Good Friday, and Easter. Millions of Jewish families begin Passover at sundown tonight, a sacred, unbroken tradition that traces back to the ancient land of Egypt. And on Sunday, we celebrate our beautiful, wonderful Easter, which we all look forward to. And were going to have many Easters together in churches in the future.Were getting closer. You see the numbers. Were getting much closer to getting our country back to the way it was. We have now an extra two countries that have been attacked 184. Theyre being attacked as we speak, but well all win. At some point, were going to all win. Were going to do it sooner than people think.Earlier today, I spoke with 10,000 of Americas faith leaders to thank them for raising the spirits of our people during these very difficult days. While we may be physically apart, we can use this time to pray, to reflect, and to focus on our personal relationship with God.I also spoke with more than 3,000 mayors, county commissioners, and state and tribal leaders to provide an update on our administrations ongoing drive to beat the virus, to crush the virus. And thats happening. And its happening, I think if you look, a little bit more quickly than people thought. Maybe a lot more quickly, I hope. And its something that all over the world were watching, but people are watching us and seeing what were doing, and theyre very impressed.Were dealing with many countries right now. Many, many countries. And were giving them whatever information were able to glean.I just spoke with the representatives of the UK, and I think that their great prime minister is doing much better today, or at least better. But certainly hes had a tough bout, and hes still going through a tough time, but he seems to be doing better. And thats good.And we  we send our regards to Boris and his family and his friends, all of the people that really love him. Hes  hes become a very popular  before this happened, became a very popular prime minister. Hes doing an excellent job. He loves their country he loves our country. So we appreciate everything hes done, and hopefully hes going to be okay.Speaking of great people, and people that have done a fantastic job, I have Secretary of State Mike Pompeo with us. And Id like to ask Mike to say a few words. And then I think what well do, in order to get him back to the State Department, well take some questions and well then go on with the rest of what Im going to say. And then well take some questions after that, and then Vice President Pence will take over.So, Mike Pompeo, please.SECRETARY POMPEO Thank you, Mr. President. Under the Presidents leadership, my team and I at the State Department are doing our part to protect the American people from the virus and, importantly, to get them home.As you know, when many countries shut down their rail lines, their buses, their infrastructure systems, the capacity to get out of those countries  they were trapped, theyre stranded  the State Department swung into action.Since January 29th, we have now repatriated over 50,000 United States citizens back to their homes from more than 90 countries, more than 490 flights back to the United States from all across the world. This worldwide scale of our repatriation efforts is without parallel in our lifetime. We are coordinating with foreign governments, militaries, airport authorities, medical units, transportation companies, hotels, you name it. Were working with them to make sure the American people get back to be with their families.You can see, behind me, the map of the flights, that we have brought back people THE PRESIDENT Good.SECRETARY POMPEO  from all across the world. Every day, I get a chance to hear some of the remarkable stories from our team. Let me give you just a couple of examples.Our mission in Peru Working with the Peruvian military and police forces to send riverboats up the  up the river to get citizens that were stranded deep inside the Amazon forest.Our mission in Nepal Make sure that a woman who was running low on medication could get what she needed at a pharmacy before boarding an evacuation flight that brought her back here.In Honduras After the government imposed a very strict 247 curfew and closed airports, our embassy sprang into action for stranded Americans  thousands of them.A threeyearold boy told one of our consular officers just before he boarded the flight, Thank you for helping me get back home to my dad. Pretty neat.Weve received similar messages from lots of people. Theyre proud to know that their country will not leave them stranded and were going to get them back home.One woman wrote, quote, I was in tears when I received the email approving our flight back to the United States. God bless the United States of America. And another said, I felt like I had allies there that actually treated me like a person or a family member, not just a number.The Repatriation Task Force at State Department, our consular officers have done great work. I want to thank our partners in the Department of Defense who have helped with some of these flights back home and other government agencies  our sisters and brothers across the United States government in this administration that have helped get these people back.And then, lastly, aside from our repatriation efforts, we continue to help countries around the world as well. Weve got CDC officials helping these countries with expertise and all the things that these countries need to get their citizens safe and healthy and back so that we can get the economy all across the world  the global economy  back on its feet when this crisis is over.Thank you, Mr. President.THE PRESIDENT Very good. Thanks, Mike. Maybe you stick for a little while SECRETARY POMPEO Sure.THE PRESIDENT  and well see if anybody has any questions for Secretary of State.Anybody? Please.