James S. Brady Press Briefing Room543 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Today, we continue to send our love to the great people of New York and New Jersey. We support them fully. We grieve alongside every family who has lost a precious loved one. New Yorkers are tough and strong and brave. New Jerseyites are tough and strong and brave, and theyre being hit very hard right now. And for the next week, hopefully not much longer than that, its going to start to go in the other direction.Our country is being hit hard, but some areas have done so incredibly well. Were so proud of them. They will beat this virus. Were going to beat it with the grit and the heart for which theyre known and for which our country is known. And we appreciate everything that everybody is doing.We also  we pray for Prime Minister Boris Johnson. Hes become a great friend of ours. He loves this country he loves his country. But he loves the USA. And hes always been very good to us. Whenever we had difficulty, he was with us, and we appreciate it. So, we pray for Prime Minister Boris Johnson. Hes going through a lot.As we intensify our military campaign against the virus, I think that it must be brought out that we have to thank the American people for continuing to follow our guidelines on slowing the spread  an expression that more and more people are thinking about. Nobody ever heard of it two months ago, and now everybody is talking about slowing the spread, stopping the spread.Even during this painful week, we see glimmers of very, very strong hope. And this will be a very painful week. And next week, at least part of next week, but probably all of it  look, if one person dies, its a painful week. And we know thats going to, unfortunately, happen. This is a monster were fighting.But signs are that our strategy is totally working. Every American has a role to play in winning this war. And were going to be winning it. Were going to be winning it powerfully. And well be prepared for the next one, should it happen, but hopefully it wont.Our massive airlift operation for critical supplies  its called Project Airbridge  continued today as five massive planes, flights, landed in the United States packed with personal protective equipment. And our nations heroic healthcare workers will be the beneficiaries of that. Twentyseven more flights are scheduled in the near future, over the next couple of weeks.The Army Corps of Engineers is constructing facilities that will support more than 15,000 hospital beds to treat patients in need. So theyre building now approximately 15,000. They just completed the big one in New York. They just completed and are in the process of continuing in Chicago and many other places. Theyre incredible. The Army Corps of Engineers  we owe them a lot. What theyre able to do in such a short period of time  theyll build these massive facilities. Two thousand beds in four days. So its really something very special. I know, I was in the construction industry, and you dont see that happen very often.I want to remind governors and emergency managers that sharing realtime data with us about equipment and their needs is very important. All of their supplies, hospital occupancy is critical. A lot of the occupancy is really getting a little bit lower than anticipated, and thats good. We, sort of, thought that was going to happen.And were getting along very well with the governors. This whole situation with respect to talking to us about equipment and equipment needs  giving us a little bit of lead time  so important. All the supplies  were getting it to everybody like they never thought possible. But well ensure that we can rapidly deploy federal assets where and when theyre needed, especially on ventilators.Were actually getting some ventilators back. As you know, the State of California was great. They sent some back, which they wont need. And Washington State, likewise. And we have some others coming back, so were using them in areas we need them.We are pressing forward aggressively on the scientific frontier of the medical war. The companies Ive spoke to  the four leading  I call them the genius companies theyre doing incredibly well with respect to cures and also with respect to a vaccine thats going to protect us  totally protect us. And they have some great potential. Its going to take a little while yet, but they have some great potential. Some great early results.And the governors have been working hard, and we are working hard with the governors. Theres been great coordination, especially over the last little while. Weve given them a lot of equipment, a lot of ventilators. But a lot of equipment of all types. And I will protect you if your governor fails. If you have a governor thats failing, were going to protect you. But the governors are working well with us over the last period of time.Today, in our stockpile of ventilators  and again, we need the stockpile so we can immediately move them from place to place, wherever the monster hits. Its a monster. We have 8,675 ventilators right now, in stock, ready to move.And we have all sorts of incredible soldiers. Our military is going to move them, should they be needed in, as an example, if we need additional in New York or the New York City area. You have state you have city. And I spoke to Mayor de Blasio, and we really have a great, wellcoordinated campaign with Mayor de Blasio. Its been really good. I spoke to Governor Cuomo. Theres been great coordination. So, if they need something, we have it.If Louisiana needs something, we have it. Same thing with Michigan. Same thing with Illinois. There are certain spots that are very hot. And well see what happens, but well know  pretty much, well have time, and well be able to move it.In addition to the 8,675 ventilators, we have 2,200 arriving on April 13th. We have 5,500 arriving on May 4th. These are ones that were building, for the most part. And we have, as you know, great companies building them  Ford, General Motors, GE. We have, really, some great companies that are doing it. On May 18th, we have 12,000. On June 1st, we have 20,000. On June 29th, we have 60,000 ventilators coming. Sixty  60. So we have a total of 110,000 ventilators coming over a short period of time. I dont think well need them. Hopefully, we wont need them. I dont think well need anywhere near them. But well have them for the future, and well also be able to help other countries who are desperate for ventilators.The UK called today and they wanted to know, would it be possible to get 200. And were going to work it out. We got to work it out. Theyve been great partners, the United Kingdom. And were going to work it out for them. So they wanted 200. They needed them desperately.We now have 10 drugs in active trials, with 15 more soon to follow, as well as 2 vaccine candidates in active clinical trials. Well do whatever it takes to secure needed medical supplies and bring more production of essential medicines back to our shores. Were doing that. Were bringing them back to our shores. A lot of these companies  they went a little bit haywire. They went away from this great country and they had them produced elsewhere. So, were going to start bringing them back. Ive been talking about that for a long time, not only with medical, but lots of other things.America continues to perform more tests than any other nation in the world. And I think thats probably why we have more cases. Because when you look at some of these very large countries, they  I know they  I know for a fact that they have far more cases than we do, but they dont report them.Weve performed 1.87 million tests to date. So thats 1 million 870 thousand  million tests. Think of that 1,870,000 tests to date. And now were performing them at a level that nobody has ever seen before.As we announced yesterday, CVS testing sites in Georgia and Rhode Island will be using Abbott Labs rapid fiveminute test. Were down to now five minutes. Its a fiveminute test so that people can get their results back very quickly.And were actively engaging on the problem of increased impacts  this is a real problem, and its showing up very strongly in our data  on the African American community. And were doing everything in our power to address this challenge. Its a tremendous challenge. Its terrible. And provide support to African American citizens of this country who are going through a lot. But its been disproportional. Theyre getting hit very, very hard.In fact, while we have Tony here, Id like to maybe have you come up and address that one, and then Ill continue. But if you could address that, it would be great, Tony. Please.DR. FAUCI Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. We have a particularly difficult problem of an exacerbation of a health disparity. Weve known, literally forever, that diseases like diabetes, hypertension, obesity, and asthma are disproportionately afflicting the minority populations, particularly the African Americans.Unfortunately, when you look at the predisposing conditions that lead to a bad outcome with coronavirus  the things that get people into ICUs that require intubation and often lead to death, they are just those very comorbidities that are, unfortunately, disproportionately prevalent in the African American population. So were very concerned about that. Its very sad. Theres nothing we can do about it right now, except to try and give them the best possible care to avoid those complications.Thank you, Mr. President.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. And, Tony, I think youre going to have some pretty accurate numbers over the next few days, right? But they are very  theyre very nasty numbers. Terrible numbers.In total, 1,200 Abbott machines  Abbott Laboratories, theyve been fantastic  have been shipped now nationwide. Up to 500 more are being produced every week, and 50,000 testing cartridges are being manufactured per day. That means a lot of very fast tests. No nation in the world has developed a more diverse and robust testing capacity than the United States.Were dealing with other nations, helping them out because the testing is very tough for them. And our tests are very accurate. A lot of tests are out there, and theyre not accurate at all. In fact, some of the tests, you dont have a clue whats going on. So were working with other nations trying to get them help, also.At a time when many Americans are experiencing increased stress, anxiety, and personal loss, we must also ensure that our country can meet the mental health needs of those struggling in this crisis. There are people struggling. Theyre struggling. And some people are getting to know each other, frankly. Some families are getting to know each other, on a positive note. But there are a lot of people struggling.On Thursday, Ill be speaking to leaders and advocates from the mental health organizations all across our country. And we are going to be talking about resources and tools that well make available to them. They need help. And its a big problem.When you take something where it was the most successful country in the world  still is  the whole world is shut down. Think of it Were down to numbers that are incredible.As I said yesterday, I think its 182 countries right now. One hundred and eightytwo countries are under attack by the  by the scourge, by this virus.But as we wage medical war on the virus, were also speeding economic relief to our people. Its incredible. We just had a meeting that was absolutely incredible with the banks. I spoke with leaders in the banking and finance industry about our efforts to help American workers and employers.As of today, small business has proc  has processed more than 70 billion in guaranteed loans and will provide muchneeded relief for nearly a quarter of a million businesses already.So we are going to be providing tremendous amounts of money to the small businesses of our country who have been absolutely clobbered. And theyll be keeping open and theyll be paying their employees, and theyll be all set to go. Were going to have a rocket upward.I want to thank David Solomon, CEO of Goldman Sachs Brian Moynihan, CEO of Bank of America Gordon Smith, copresident, COO of JPMorgan Chase Charles Scharf, CEO of Wells Fargo Michael Corbat, CEO of Citigroup Al Kelly, CEO of Visa Michael Miebach, CEO of Mastercard Noah Wilcox, CEO, chairman of Grand Rapids State Bank. And we had numerous others also on the call. And I just appreciate them.They are  were way ahead of schedule, by the way. Were way ahead of schedule. The Paycheck Protection Program has been incredible.So based on the incredible success of the program, Im announcing that Ill be asking Congress to provide an additional 250 billion for the paycheck protection, which will help keep Americans employed to facilitate a quick and full recovery.Were doing very well. Were looking very bipartisan. A lot of people want to do it. And the  the plan is amazing. You know, theyre processing hundreds of thousands of loans. And this is the big banks that are doing it, the community banks. But the biggest banks right now in our country are doing it, and theyre  theyre doing it for a lot of reasons. One of them is they want to help people.The WHO, thats the World Health Organization, receives vast amounts of money from the United States. And we pay for a majority  biggest portion of their money. And they actually criticized and disagreed with my travel ban at the time I did it. And they were wrong. Theyve been wrong about a lot of things. And they had a lot of information early and they didnt want to  theyre very  they seem to be very Chinacentric. And we have to look into that. So were going to look into it.We pay for  we give a majority of the money that they get. And its much more than that the 58. Fiftyeight million dollars is a small portion of what theyve gotten over the years. Sometimes they get much more than that. Sometimes its for programs that theyre doing, and  and its much bigger numbers. And if the programs are good, thats great, as far as were concerned.But we want to look into it  World Health Organization  because they really are  they called it wrong. They called it wrong. They really  they missed the call. They could have called it months earlier. They would have known, and they should have known. And they probably did know, so well be looking into that very carefully.And were going to put a hold on money spent to the WHO. Were going to put a very powerful hold on it, and were going to see. Its a great thing if it works, but when they call every shot wrong, thats no good.Were in the midst of a great national struggle, one that requires the shared sacrifice of all Americans. In recent weeks, its been remarkable to see so many companies and organizations and individuals, like the banks that I just told you about  biggest banks in the world. They stepped up to help small business. They have big business, small business. The small business will someday be the big business. But the small business is 50 percent of our economic strength. People dont realize when you add them up, but they just  they just rose to the occasion. Everybody is rising to the occasion. Its been incredible to watch.To honor and celebrate the extraordinary examples of patriotism and citizenship, were seeing  Im asking Americans to use the hashtag AmericaWorksTogether when sharing stories of how were all working together, get through  getting through this ordeal in a fashion that nobody would have ever thought possible. Its been incredible. And thats why the numbers are, so far, much better. We want to keep it that way.If you look at the original projections If we did nothing, it would be disastrous. If we  we decided to do something. We closed it down had no choice. It was a good move. That was a good move. The early China move was a good move. The early Europe move was a good move. Made a lot of good moves. But closing it down was a big statement. It was a big, important thing.But were looking to have far fewer deaths than originally thought. And I think were heading in that direction, but its too early to talk about it. I dont even want to talk about it now because we just want to work.And I think that people are doing an incredible job. The doctors, the nurses, the firefighters, the police  all medical people, what theyre doing  the bravery that theyre displaying is just incredible.Every citizen should take immense pride in the selfless  selflessness and all of the courage and compassion of our people. The workers  the people that are working and construction workers going into hospitals, knowing nothing about this problem, other than its dangerous. And they go in there to rebuild sections of hospitals. And you have people in really big trouble right next door. They know nothing about it. All they know is theyre going to get it done, theyre going to fix that wing so they can have more people in there. Its incredible.But this is a national spirit that won our independence and settled the frontier and explored the horizons of space. And thats what were doing. I mean, this is all  this is all new territory.It unlocked the miracles of science and what  were doing that when you  I wish you could have heard the calls I had yesterday with these great companies that come up with cures to diseases. And the success theyve had over the last 15 years is really amazing. So I just want to thank all of them. Theyre working very hard.Theyre working with UK, right now, and the UK doctors  hopefully helping with their great Prime Minister. But these people are really a  tremendous signs of success are staring us right in the face. I think were going to have something thats going to be great, in terms of vaccines and in terms of everything else that theyre doing, just helping  really helping us, helping the people of our country and helping, ultimately, the people of the world.So I want to thank you all for being here. I will take some questions, and then Im going to give it over to the Vice President and theyre going to go into great detail on to what were doing and all of the successful supplies and medical equipment that were getting  all of the ventilators. Ive said it, but you can go over it in more detail if youd like. But were taking in and building thousands and thousands of ventilators. And theyre very high quality. I said, You got to go for the quality. And these are quality companies doing it.So  because there is a big difference between a good ventilator and a notsogood ventilator, Tony, right? Weve seen that. And  big difference. So were going top of the line.Steve, please.