James S. Brady Press Briefing RoomApril 6, 2020541 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Thank you very much. This week, America continues our aggressive effort to defeat the virus as we enter a crucial and difficult phase of the battle.We continue to send our prayers to the people of New York and New Jersey, and to our whole country. But right now, New York and New Jersey are very hot zones, and were with them. Were with everybody. Your struggle is our struggle, and we will beat this virus. We will beat it together.I also want to send best wishes to a very good friend of mine and a friend to our nation, Prime Minister Boris Johnson. Were very saddened to hear that he was taken into intensive care this afternoon, a little while ago, and Americans are all praying for his recovery. Hes been a really good friend. Hes been really something very special. Strong. Resolute. Doesnt quit. Doesnt give up.We have made tremendous progress on therapeutics. I had a fantastic call today, which Ill be talking about a little bit later. And Ive asked two of the leading companies  these are brilliant companies. Ebola, AIDS, others. Theyve come with the solutions and just have done incredible jobs. And Ive asked them to contact London immediately. They have offices in London. Theyre major companies. But more than major, more than size, theyre genius.And I had a talk with four of them today. And they speak a language that most people dont even understand, but I understand something that theyve really advanced therapeutics and therapeutically, and they have arrived in London already. Their London office has whatever they need, and well see if we can be of help.Weve contacted all of Boriss doctors, and well see what is going to take place. But they are ready to go. But when you get brought into intensive care, that gets very, very serious with this particular disease.So, the two companies are there. And with what they are talking about  and its rather complex and has had really incredible results  were working with the FDA and everybody else, but we are working with London, with respect to Boris Johnson.Across the country, were attacking the enemy on all fronts, including medical, scientific, social, logistical, and economic. Were pressing into action the full power of American government and American enterprise. And our military has been incredible. Weve just sent 3,000 public health personnel. Theyre now deployed in the New York area, and theyll be over at the Javits Center, over at the great ship.And as you probably have heard  and I was informed that Governor Cuomo has already told you and announced  he called me up a little while ago, and he asked whether or not it would be possible to use the ship, with respect to fighting the virus. And we hadnt had that in mind at all, but were going to let him do it, and were also going to let New Jersey. Governor Murphy  we spoke with him a little while ago, and New Jersey is going to use it also because New Jersey is a hot  a hotspot.So Governor Murphy and Governor Cuomo are going to be using the ship for New York, New Jersey. And its a big ship, and its now COVID its set for COVID. And we are going to  hopefully that will be very helpful to both states. The Javits Center, which is 2,900 beds, just built by our military, also is going to be manned now by the military. And they should be in place tomorrow, and theyll start sending quite a few people over to the Javits Center. Its convenient. Its right in the middle of everything. So thatll be something great.And we appreciated Governor Cuomos nice  really nice statements and, likewise, Governor Murphy. We have worked very well with both of them and with, frankly, all of the governors. Vice President Pence had a call this morning with them that lasted for close to two hours. And I understand there wasnt a negative person on the call. Fifty governors  or just about fifty governors  I think they were all on, from what I understood. And they were very positive about everything their federal government has been doing for them. And youll hear what that is, and its  its rather amazing, actually.Nationwide, the Army Corps of Engineers is building 22 field hospitals  these are big hospitals  and alternate care sites in 18 states. So you have a combination of 22 field hospitals. In addition to that, were building alternate care sites, which is a little bit of a smaller version of the hospital. And we have a lot of them, and theyre going up in 18 different states.In total, we have deployed 8,450 hospital beds from federal stockpiles. And, you know, if you think, this is done over a period of  really, a period of weeks. Its incredible, actually. More than 8,000 ventilators have been sent from the National Stockpile to our cities and states, backed by the Defense Production Act, which weve used very strongly, very powerfully. So powerfully that we dont have to use it too much, frankly. And its nice when you dont have to. Were getting more than we ever bargained for.American industry is stepping up. Manufacturers are really going to town. And we have thousands of ventilators being built as we speak, and we have hundreds that are being sent to different locations, and were ready to roll with almost 10,000 that we have in the federal stockpile.When I say ready to roll, too, I mean exactly what that states We are  wherever that monster goes, were able to move with it. Great flexibility. We have tremendous flexibility. And we have people waiting, and theyre ready, willing, and able, but waiting to bring them wherever it may be, if they need it. If they need it. Its possible that they wont be needed, that were fully stocked, because numbers are coming in where, because of what the American people are doing, were having fewer hospital visits. I think that could be the case in New York. It could be the case in a few other states. And fewer beds, fewer hospital visits mean fewer ventilators. So well see whether or not our original projections were right.But anyway, I had a very good talk with both governors, and I think theyre very happy  extremely happy about the  what were doing for them, and especially going all COVID. So thatll take place almost immediately.FEMA and HHS have directly distributed 11.7 million N95 respirators. Think of that. Get the number. 11.7 million N95 respirators. 11.7 million. 26.5 million surgical masks, 5.3 million face shields, 4.4 million surgical gowns, and 22.6 million gloves. 22.6 million gloves.We have also arranged for vast quantities of additional materials to be allocated through donations and existing supply chains. Weve also given tremendous medical material and supplies throughout the 50 states and territories.And through Project Airbridge, we have succeeded in bringing planeloads of vital supplies into the United States from overseas. We had an additional three. These are massive planes, by the way. The big planes  theyre very big, very powerful, and theyre loaded to the gills with supplies. And rather than bringing them into our stockpile, as weve discussed, we bring them to all the different locations where theyre needed so we can save a big step and a timely step.Because of my actions, under the DPA, I can also announce today that we have reached an agreement  a very amicable agreement  with 3M for the delivery of an additional 55.5 million highquality facemask  facemasks each month. So that were going to be getting, over the next couple of months, 166.5 million masks for our frontline healthcare workers.So the 3M saga ends very happily. Were very proud to be dealing now with 3M and its CEO, Mike Roman. I just spoke with him and I thanked him for getting it done. And Mike was very happy to get it done. Its a great company. So were getting 166.5 million masks, and mostly thats going to be for our frontline healthcare workers. Okay? Thats 3M. Thank you, 3M.I also want to thank Apple, one of the many great American companies thats taken into  thats really leapt into action. Today, Apple announced that it is now producing plastic face shields for healthcare workers at the rate of 1 million per week. One million. And these are the shields that you see on television quite a bit. And theyre at the highest level of quality and safety.Were grateful, as well, to Salesforce, which has donated 48 million pieces of personal protective equipment, including masks, gowns, suits, and face shields. So thank you very much to Salesforce.I urge all of our nations governors to ensure that the massive deliveries that weve made to your states over the past few weeks are distributed as quickly as possible.So again, were working very well with the governors. Now, they may see you and say, Oh, were not happy. But theyre very happy on the phone. And Mike Pence is a straight shooter, and he had a great phone conversation to them, with all of the governors. Teleconference. And theyre very happy, every one of them.Were there any negatives?THE VICE PRESIDENT No, sir.THE PRESIDENT See? I told you. Mike is the greatest. Mike  and you have done a great job, Mike, and I appreciate it. The whole country appreciates it.THE VICE PRESIDENT Thank you, Mr. President.Anthony appreciates it, right? Arent you  see? Everybody appreciates Mike. A special man.So a lot of the things that weve done, again, are going directly to the states. The states seem to be very happy. If theyre not, they can call me directly, they can call Mike directly, and well make them happy. But tremendous progress has been made in a very short period.And I think, very importantly, the progress has been made before the surge comes, because the next week, week and a half, is going to be a big surge, the professionals tell us. And I think were in good shape for it, Anthony. So its good timing. Really good timing. We can have the stuff there. Its already there, for the most part, but were bringing a lot of different resources to the various locations, especially where the surge is looking like its going to take place.Resources from the National Stockpile need to reach our warriors. And they are warriors. I tell it all the time. I saw it again this morning, these young, in many cases  in many cases, older  but theyre walking into the hospital, and theyre putting on  I mean, as that door is opened, theyre going into this place, and, you know, its not exactly too safe. And theyre going in there and theyre putting the outfits on and theyre putting their masks on, and theyre  its incredible. Its no  its truly  its like no different than you watch the war movies or you watch the old clips of war, running up hills. Its  to me, its the same thing.Men and women, young and old, but a lot of young people, just going in there. Theyre not thinking about, Oh, gee, this is dangerous. Theyre not saying, Oh, I dont want to go in. Theyre  theyre warriors. Theyre running through those doors. Its the most incredible thing. Its a beautiful  its an incredible, beautiful thing.Resources from the National Stockpile need to reach these warriors in the hospitals immediately, and were making sure they do. And again, the states have that responsibility, but were working with the states and were getting the states a lot of things that they can distribute. Or when they tell us, we bring it directly to the hospital from the federal stockpile, or from the planes that land without even going to the stockpile.If any state is having difficulty distributing supplies, we urge you to use the National Guard to assist in the delivery. And I have to say, you have done a fantastic job.Deborah, you know that youve done great. Tony, you know that youve done great.But what a job youve done. And I appreciate it. I really do. Your whole group has been incredible. Thats a lot of stars you have. Ill tell you that. Hes supposed to do a great job when you have four stars, right?But the military has been incredible, and I thank them for all of us.Conversely, if a state believes that it has surplus equipment or supplies  very important, because we actually have gotten so much to some of the states that theyre able to now  theyve done a fantastic job and theyve kept  theyve kept that line low. And we have some states that have surplus equipment and supplies, and theyre working with us to rapidly redeploy those supplies to areas of greatest need. We thought that might happen. If it worked out well, thats what was going to happen, and its happening.And I want to thank Governor Gavin Newsom, whos doing a tremendous job, whos announced California will send 500 ventilators to be distributed to other locations. I think some are going to Arizona. Some are going to Washington, D.C. We think theyre going to Delaware. Were working it out. But 500 excess ventilators from the State of California. And were going to get them taken care of wherever they have to go. Those decisions are being made right now.The members of the White House Task Force and I are in close touch with mayors and governors and hospital administrators across our country. And were told that the present time  at the present time, most of the critical needs are  are being more than met. States have to continue sharing detailed information in the amount and utilization rates of medical supplies so we know what to resupply them. Or they can get it directly that includes ventilators. They can get it directly. Ideally, if they can get it directly, but if they cant, if theyre unable to do it, we have tremendous amounts of supplies. And were building it up very fast too. And this is before the big surge.This information is fundamental to our ability to deliver the material when  when and where its most needed.Now, Mike, in his conversation today, I think got some information as to a couple of locations where were going to be delivering large numbers of ventilators and large numbers of medical supplies. And well take care of that.But some of the states are very happy. Even Governor Pritzker, from Illinois, is happy. Of course, he may not be happy when he talks to the press, but hes happy. Hes a very happy man.Were increasingly hopeful that the aggressive mitigation strategy we put into place will ultimately allow our hospital system to successfully manage the major influx of cases that  that we have right now. Again, I say that were finding, because of the incredible job done by the American people in conjunction with everybody  governors, the military, federal government, state government, local government  had a lot of conversations with New York City and Mayor de Blasio. Ive gotten to know him. I didnt know him. Gotten to know him. And a lot of people are working hard. Everybody is working hard. A lot of people are doing a great job  Ill tell you that. A lot of people are doing a great job.But the goals that all Americans have been sacrificing to achieve these last few weeks are things that a lot of people thought were not possible to achieve. And I think weve more than achieved, but we have to go through.Again, were going to have a rough week. Were going to have maybe a rough a little more than a week. And  but theres tremendous light at the end of that tunnel. I said it last time. I said it last night Theres tremendous light at the end of the tunnel. Theres so many things happening with therapeutics, with vaccines, with things that we really want.Deborah, Tony, theyre all working so hard on this. But those therapeutics  I mean, look, the vaccines are going to be always a little bit later because of that testing period, but the therapeutics  getting the kind of things that I heard about today, talking to these brilliant companies and brilliant people on the phone was fantastic. It was such an incredible conversation.And I also spoke, just a few minutes ago, with Vice President  former Vice President Biden, who called. And we had a really wonderful, warm conversation. It was a very nice conversation. We talked about pretty much this. This is what we talked about. This is what everyone is talking about. This is what they want to talk about. And he gave me his point of view, and I fully understood that. And we just had a very friendly conversation. It lasted probably 15 minutes, and it was really good. It was really good. Really nice. I think it was very much so. I appreciate his calling.As we continue our efforts to develop treatments and cures, this afternoon I spoke with leaders of the American pharmaceutical companies. And just to give you their names Amgen, Genentech, Gilead, Regeneron. These are four the greatest in the world for doing exactly what theyre doing.And currently, 10 different therapeutic agents are in active trials and some are looking incredibly successful, but we have to go through a process. And its going to be a fairly quick process, I will tell you, based on what the FDA told me. And another 15 are in plans for clinical trials. So theyre advancing rapidly.And today, a second company announced that the FDA has authorized its vaccine candidate to begin clinical trials. So you have  Johnson  Johnson is already there. I believe theyre the one thats first. And now we have a second company that just  just announced. And we were just  it was just approved. So we have two companies at that level for the vaccine itself.Weve now performed 100  well, if you think of this 1.79 million tests. Thats 1,790,000 tests nationwide. And I think were going to put up a screen here someplace. Good. Theyre on cue. Theyre just on cue. And here it is. This is the process starting on 5 March and ending right there. Right about now. Right? Thats about it.ADMIRAL GIROIR Yesterday.THE PRESIDENT So  and its going up at a rapid rate. Nobody has done more testing.And one of the reasons why they say  and I think I can say this, Deborah, very strongly  but one of the reasons that we have more cases is weve done more testing. If I went to some of these countries that have, in my opinion, far more people than we do, that had the problem, and if we did the kind of testing proportionately that were doing, theyd have many more cases than us. But we have more cases because we do much more testing.So when you do the testing, you have cases. Otherwise, you wouldnt know about the cases. People sit home you dont know about it.But we have now done 1,790,000 tests nationwide. Thats more than any other country in the world, hence we have more cases. And that number is growing by nearly 125,000 people per day. Think of that one. So its growing by 125,000 people per day.I told you about South Korea. This is a, you know, vastly faster  and we also have, they say, the most accurate of tests.CVS is launching  and theyve been great  two new drivethrough testing sites in Atlanta, Georgia, and Providence, Rhode Island. And each location will be able to test up to 1,000 patients per day using the ultrafast fiveminute test developed by Abbott Labs. Now theyre down to five minutes. They call it the ultrafast and its very accurate. Abbott Labs, I want to thank them. Theyve been fantastic.Were also speeding urgent economic relief to the American worker and families and the employers. As of today, tens of thousands of small businesses have applied for more than 40 billion in relief under the Paycheck Protection Program. Youve all been reading about it. And its really  I mean, its only been going for a couple of days. Its really been performing well. A couple of little glitches  minor glitches that have already been taken care of, what they say.These funds will result in nearly 2 million jobs being preserved. So were taking care of our workers  small businesses and our workers.Nearly 3,000 lenders have already made loans under the program, and were signing up additional lenders very quickly  rapidly.Community banks have been very responsive, and larger banks are also stepping up. If this  if we run out of funds  by the way, were already preparing because its going so fast for the small businesses and their employees  well ask Congress to refill it immediately. But the banks have been great. The big banks  the Bank of America was right up there at the beginning. JPMorgan Chase was  has been great. After the first day, they really  they really came through, and a lot of the big banks. But the community banks have been fantastic.As we announced last week, we are providing 100 billion in direct support for our hospitals. And the first tranche, 30 billion, will be distributed this week.So I want to  I want to say one other thing. Our farmers  we love our farmers  and, as you know, as of April 1st, the China trade deal  250billiondollar  they purchased 250 billion from us, if not more. And of that, approximately 50 billion is expected to be with our farmers.So it kicked in as of April 1st, and well see how it goes. It seems like theyre buying. So well let you know how thats going. But theyre buying anywhere from 40 to 50 billion worth of our agricultural product. That should have a huge impact on our farmers  a tremendous impact on our farmers. But were watching it very closely.To fight the medical war, weve mobilized the unbeatable  and it just  it is unbeatable  strength of American determination, ingenuity, and compassion. I got to see that when I spoke to the great science  because I call them science companies more than drug companies. Theyre scientists.Weve seen businesses, charities, and private citizens making generous donations. So many people are making donations. Weve seen states and cities supporting and helping each other and caring for our citizens. And weve seen Americans of all backgrounds and beliefs uniting together to answer the challenge and rise to the moment. And thats what theyre doing.Above all, we have been aweinspired by the exceptional courage of the doctors, nurses, EMTs, and healthcare workers who are the soldiers of this war. No words can ever express the complete measure of our gratitude for these intrepid heroes.One Cleveland patient credited his medical team for not only saving his life through their skill, but forever changing his life through their example of selfless devotion. Couldnt believe it  so generous he was with his statements. And he talked about their bravery in an area that was in such trouble  an area of that hospital where people were dying. And he talked about their bravery.Another survivor in Houston said simply, I will consider them my angels forever. I will consider them  think of that  my angels forever.As our nation endures the depths of loss and grief, we are also witness to the summit of American virtue, character, and courage. With the love and dedication of every American patriot, we will win this battle, we will defeat this enemy, and we will rise from this present crisis with new strength, unity, and resolve. And thats whats happening.Tremendous stories are coming out of this horrible moment. A very dark moment for the world. One hundred and eighty two. I was saying 151 for a while, and then it got up to 160. And its 182, as I announced yesterday. A hundred and eightytwo countries are being attacked by this virus.So I just want to thank everybody, and I want to thank the American citizens for doing a great job. Stay inside. And lets win this, and lets get our country open as soon as we can. I think its going to be sooner than people think. Things are going really well. Again, light at the end of the tunnel.And with that, Ill take a few questions. And then Mike is going to take over and talk with the Admiral and with the professionals. And we appreciate you being here.Yes, please.