James S. Brady Press Briefing RoomApril 5, 2020659 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Okay, thank you very much, everybody. All these people have been working very, very hard today, Ill tell you. For a long time, theyve been working.But before I begin, I want to express our nations well wishes to Prime Minister Boris Johnson as he wages his own personal fight with the virus. All Americans are praying for him. Hes a friend of mine. Hes a great gentleman and a great leader. And hes  as you know, he was brought to the hospital today, but Im hopeful and sure that hes going to be fine. Hes a strong man, a strong person.Today, every patriotic American heart beats in solidarity with the incredible people of New York and New Jersey. Theyve really become a very hot zone, but some very good things are happening. In New York, the first time where the deaths were less from the previous day. Thats the first drop so far. So maybe thats a good sign it could be. And the hospital levels are starting to perhaps decrease. Its been very short, but perhaps decrease.So we wish Governor Cuomo and all of the people in New York great. And, New Jersey, your governor is doing a great job. Hes doing a great job in New Jersey. They got hit very hard.I just want to say that the full power of the American government and American enterprise  it really is. This is an allout military operation that weve waged, and especially over the last number of weeks. Fifty states and territories have now been approved for major disaster declarations, which is very unusual.Thanks to the Army Corps of Engineers, New York Citys Javits Center is now one of the largest hospitals in the United States. Its designated for treatment of the virus patients and staffed by hundreds of federal medical personnel deployed from two Army hospital units, and theyre doing a great job. This was something that we didnt expect to do, but they needed help in New York and we sent federal troops  not only troops, we also sent a lot of very talented doctors, nurses, first responders. People are now running Javits.Also, as you know, the USNS Comfort, which is in New York  theres been a lot of publicity about that coming in and all. That was not supposed to be for the virus at all, under any circumstances. But it looks like, more and more, were going to be using it for that. So well see. That was supposed to be for people having other medical problems, but its very interesting because there are virtually no cars on the road, no motorcycles on the road, no  no anything on the road. Things that would normally be taken care of, we dont see anymore. So we havent seen that in a long time. Its, perhaps, a positive.But the ship is ready. And if it has to, if we need it  if we need it for the virus, we will be using it for that. Theyd prefer not, for obvious reasons, but if for any reason they need it, its ready, willing, and able.We have the best doctors, the best military leaders, and the best logistics professionals anywhere in the world. And were orchestrating a massive federal response unlike anything our country has ever seen or done. Weve never done anything like this. And, more and more, were using our medical people because of the fact that jurisdictions, states  in particular New York, New Jersey, the Connecticut area. Long Island now has become a hotspot  part of New York. Were sending a lot of things, a lot of supplies, and now were sending personnel where its needed. Military personnel.As of Tuesday, well have deployed over 3,000 military and public health professionals to New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, and other parts of our country  3,000  and that number is going up. And we hope were seeing a leveling off in the hottest spots of them all. So well see. Youll be seeing that over the next few days. Lets see what happens. But were prepared.In the last seven days, FEMA has airlifted critical supplies and protective equipment from every corner of Earth. Theyre coming from all over the planet, including from within the United States, where the equipment isnt as necessary.Since last Sunday, cargo planes have delivered almost  listen to this  300 million gloves, almost 8 million masks, and 3 million gowns. And many more fully loaded cargo planes are right now on the way. Three big ones landed today. And these supplies are being distributed directly to the hospitals and healthcare providers all across the nation so that that massive amount of material that were getting in is being delivered all over the country.Tomorrow, well deliver an additional 600,000 N95 masks to New York City to take care of the needs of the public hospital system. It was requested  Mayor de Blasio. Weve been working great with Mayor de Blasio, getting him a lot of stuff. Hes working very hard I can tell you that. And were working, really, very hard with New York City and with New York State.And at the request of Congressman Lee Zeldin, out in Long Island, we will also be delivering another 200,000 N95 masks to Suffolk County, where they need it very badly. So were getting that out on an emergency basis. It should be there tomorrow.Well also be deploying millions of N95 masks to other locations that Admiral Polowczyk will detail shortly. The Admiral will be up in just a couple of minutes.Over the last 24 hours, FEMA has delivered an additional 500 ventilators to New Jersey. Five hundred. And again, the governor has been very thankful. Were working very hard with New Jersey, including building hospitals.Weve also sent an additional 200 ventilators to Louisiana  a definite hotspot. Three hundred to Michigan  working very well, I think, with the governor.Amazingly, 600 will be going or have gone to Illinois. And, I mean, theres a governor  I hear him complaining all the time  Pritzker. I hear him hes always complaining. And yet, I just said, Give me a list of a couple of the things weve done in Illinois. And were building a 2,500bed hospital in McCormick Place thats the big convention center in Chicago. And were helping to staff it and probably will end up staffing it because hes not able to do what youre supposed to be able to do as a governor. He has not performed well.And were also sending 100 ventilators to Massachusetts.So we have 600 to Illinois. We have 100 to Massachusetts. We have 300 to Michigan. We have 200 to Louisiana. We have 500 ventilators  500  going to New Jersey. And this is being done by FEMA. Its being delivered by FEMA. And its  thats some job. Just think of that. When you think about 500 ventilators, a ventilator is a big deal.Were also establishing a federal medical station in the Washington, D.C., area to help Washington, D.C., and working very closely with the mayor and everybody in Washington, D.C.At the same time, Governor Inslee  we appreciate this  of Washington State has returned 400 ventilators, which can now be deployed elsewhere in our country. So the State of Washington has done very well. They wont be needing some of the ventilators that have been sent  about 400. Thats a lot. And we appreciate that hes able to give them back. He feels confident that they are in good shape for the coming weeks, until we can declare a final victory.In the days ahead, America will endure the peak of this terrible pandemic. Our warriors in this lifeanddeath battle are the incredible doctors and nurses and healthcare workers on the frontline of the fight. We pledge to them our eternal gratitude and everlasting support. They make all of us very proud. Our country is very proud. We have people  they love our country. The world loves our country, most of it. Probably all of it they just dont say it.I can report today that the United States has now tested and given results  gotten results of 1.67 million people. Thats far more than any other country has been able to do. And you remember, we inherited a broken system. So a lot of this has been developed.By Tuesday, 1,200 brandnew rapid pointofcare testing kits has been produced by Abbott Laboratories. A great company. And theyll be distributed to all of our public health labs  thats a 15minute test even less  as well as the Indian Health Service, the CDC, and the Strategic National Stockpile.So were going to have 1,200. And on a weekly basis, were making a lot more. They go very fast. Theyre very accurate tests. And other countries are wanting them. So, at the right time, well be able to do that. But right now, were getting them to all of ours.So weve done 1,670,000 tests. Think of that 1,670,000 tests. And we have a great system now. Were working with the states in almost all instances, but we have a great system.And the other thing that we bought a tremendous amount of is the hydroxychloroquine  hydroxychloroquine  which I think  as you know, its a great malaria drug. Its worked unbelievably. Its this powerful drug on malaria. And there are signs that it works on this. Some very strong signs. And, in the meantime, its been around a long time. It also works very powerfully on lupus. Lupus.So there are some very strong, powerful signs, and well have to see. Because again, its being tested now. This is a new thing that just happened to us  the invisible enemy, we call it.And, if you can, if you have a  no signs of heart problems, the azrithromycin sic  azithromycin  which will kill certain things that you dont want living within your body  its powerful drug  if you dont have a problem, a heart problem, we would say Let your doctor think about it. But as a combination, I think theyre going to be  I think theyre two things that should be looked at very strongly.Now, we have purchased and we have stockpiled 29 million pills of the hydroxychloroquine  29 million. A lot of drugstores have them by prescription, and also  and theyre not expensive. Also, were sending them to various labs, our military. Were sending them to the hospitals. Were sending them all over.I just think its something  you know the expression, Ive used it for certain reasons What do you have to lose? What do you have to lose? And a lot of people are saying that when  and are taking it  if youre a doctor, a nurse, a first responder, a medical person going into hospitals, they say taking it before the fact is good. But what do you have to lose? They say, Take it.Im not looking at it one way or the other, but we want to get out of this. If it does work, it would be a shame if we didnt do it early. But we have some very good signs. So thats hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin.And, again, you have to go through your medical people, get the approval. But Ive seen things that I sort of like. So what do I know? Im not a doctor. Im not a doctor. But I have common sense. The FDA feels good about it. Theyve  as you know, theyve approved it. They gave it a rapid approval. And the reason because its been out there for a long time and they know the side effects and they also know the potential. So, based on that, we have sent it throughout the country and we have it stockpiled  about 29 million doses. Twentynine million doses. We have a lot of it. We hope it works.Driven by the goal of the brightest minds in science  we have the brightest minds in science, but were driven by the goal of getting rid of this plague, getting rid of this scourge, getting rid of this virus. These brilliant minds are working on the most effective antiviral therapies and vaccines. We are working very, very hard. I have met many of the doctors that are doing it. These are doctors that are working so hard on vanquishing the virus.Theyre staying  we strongly recommend staying at home, practicing vigorous hygiene, and maintaining social distance, so youre  youre just not going to catch it. Its the most effective weapon in this war.And I will tell you, the  we are committing to the  to you. Were committing to the people of our country like few administrations, few people, few professionals have ever committed before. They are  they are working so hard. I see them. I see them before my eyes, exhausted  people that Im dealing with every day, exhausted. They havent left their offices. They havent left their hospitals. We meet with them. We see them.And tremendous strides have been made. I think the vaccines  well have a report on that. But the vaccines  were working together with other countries. Were also working with other countries  many other countries. And we all want everyone else to be first. Were very happy. But we are very far down the line on vaccines. Well see how that all works. Johnson  Johnson is doing a great job, working very hard. A vaccine would be great. Therapy  a therapy and therapeutics would be great. Well see what happens. In the meantime, you may listen to what I said about the two drugs mentioned.My administration is rapidly implementing the largest emergency economic relief package in American history. Youve seen whats been happening. Billions of dollars in small business loans have already been processed through Paycheck Protection Programs.So we went out on Friday and, literally, its become so popular. Its been worked with the banks. They get it to the small business. Its all about employment. Its all about jobs. We want you to keep your jobs. It gives small business funding to keep the workers on the payroll. And were sending direct cash payments to millions of Americans and rushing aid to the hardesthit industries. Were saving industries. We will be  youll be seeing it. And if we do more, were going to do more, and were going to try and get directly to people that are hit so hard.But were going to take care of our workers. Were going to take care of our citizens. Were going to take care of our small businesses. Were going to take care of our large businesses the airplane industry, the  the airline industry. A lot of great industries that we have that are in trouble because of what took place over the last short period of time.These are industries that were doing better  for the most part, doing better than ever. The airlines were doing great. Oil was doing great  oil and gas. And the energy industry was doing phenomenally well, and it got hit like nobody has ever been hit before. Just about like no industry has ever been hit before. Theres never been anything like this.But we see light at the end of the tunnel. Things are happening. Things are happening. Were starting to see light at the end of the tunnel. And hopefully, in the nottoodistant future, well be very proud of the job we all did. We can never be happy when so many people are dying, but were going to be very proud of the job we did to keep the death down to an absolute minimum  the least it could have happened with this terrible, terrible virus.In closing, I also want to note today is Palm Sunday and the beginning of Holy Week for Christians in America and all around the world. While we may be apart from one another, as you can see from our great churches, our great pastors and ministers are out there working very hard. But we may be apart  we can use this time to turn to reflection and prayer and our own personal relationship with God.I would ask that all Americans pray for the heroic doctors and nurses, for the truck drivers and grocery store workers, and for everyone fighting this battle. I had mentioned yesterday, where I see the nurses rushing into hospitals, and theyre putting on their outfits, and theyre putting on their masks and goggles, in some cases. Theyre rushing into war. Theyre rushing into war.And I see people from apartment houses screaming and shouting and singing their praises. Its an incredible thing. Theyre warriors  these doctors and nurses. Theyre running into buildings, and theyre literally putting it on as the doors are opening. Theyre putting all their stuff and running inside. And theyre running inside to tremendous danger. Tremendous danger.But, most of all, Id like to ask for your prayers for the families who have lost loved ones. Ask God to comfort them in their hour of grief. Its a great hour of grief for our nation, for the world.This morning  I was talking 151. For four days, I said 151. A hundred and fiftyone countries. This morning, its 182 countries. It jumped up a lot. So, as of this morning, its 182 countries are under attack from this monster.With the faith of our families and the spirit of our people, and the grace of our God, we will endure, we will overcome, we will prevail. We have learned so much. We will be stronger than ever.And I just want to thank everybody. I want to thank the incredible professionals on the task force also. We had a big meeting today. We  were calls all day long to so many different people. And I think our package to get everyone working when were ready is really turning out to be successful. We may have to make it larger because its been really successful. But all of that comes back to this country. We want to get them back. We want to get our people back to work. Everybody wants to be back. We want to open up our country as soon as possible.So, with that, Im going to ask Dr. Birx to say a few words, and shes got some charts to show you. And thank you very much. Thank you.DR. BIRX Thank you, Mr. President. As you can see from the hopeful signs in Italy and Spain, where we see, finally, new cases and deaths declining, its giving us hope of what our future could be.We wanted to give you an update on where all of the states were. Were looking at this as states normalized per 100,000 citizens. It looks very similar to last week. We wanted to update you. Weve been covering throughout the week the states that were moving on this map.You can see very clearly where New York is as a state, although this is very much still centered in the New York metro area. New Jersey is the orange line. The green line is Louisiana. Thats followed by Massachusetts, and then Connecticut and Michigan are together in those lines towards the bottom. And then, of course, Washington, D.C., is now visible on this map, which was not visible before. And the yellow line towards the bottom is Washington State.Next slide, please.So this just summarize all of the states were tracking very closely at the county level. So were tracing and tracking not only the epidemic at the state level, but understanding whats happening in county by county with new cases and, of course, also the deaths.Were also triangulating that with all of the laboratory data. And just to tell you how were kind of doing that For New York, which you can see at the top, their serology is now about 36 percent positive. They were in the 40s. So, day over day, their percent positive is finally starting to decline. New Jerseys is increasing, however. Theyre now up to 42 percent of the specimens that come to the laboratory are positive. Louisiana, 25 percent. Massachusetts, 20 percent. Connecticut and Michigan, 20 percent. District of Columbia, 15 percent. Washington, 8 percent. And then, Illinois and Colorado are at about 16 percent. Pennsylvania, which is also new to the graphic, is it about 12 percent.Next slide, please.So, if we could go back one  Im sorry. If you go back one slide. One more. All of the states here, those are 38 of the states. Thirtyeight of our states have less than 50 cases per hundred thousand. They are testing. Their laboratory results are consistent with that. Their seropositivity rate for their laboratories are less than 5 percent.So this is how were tracking and triangulating both case reporting, mortality or fatalities, and also triangulating that with the laboratory.The New York metro area, New Jersey, Louisiana, and a series  and Washington State  have all tested at a rate greater than Italy and Spain. I know many of you are tracking that. Remember, many of us, we pushed out a lot of those assays at the beginning, over the last two to three weeks. And I want to just thank Admiral Giroir and HHS, whos been working very closely to make sure that the states that were having an outbreak had access to all of their assays.Next slide, please. And then next one.So just to give you an idea of how were looking at this, we look at cases every day. I want to just thank my data team. They spend all evening compiling data. I get it about 2 oclock in the morning. And it looks at all of these metro areas by their granular counties. So we can see the counties that have new cases. That also helps us identify the hospitals and understand what hospitals will need ventilators or PPE.So, this is the Detroit area its Oakland and Detroit. Wayne County.Next slide.We also then  also track mortality. It gives us insight into how many clients are in the ICU and need care. And we want to make sure that were meeting the needs both on cases and really appreciating the frontline healthcare workers that are really saving many peoples lives.Next slide.This just gives you an idea from New Orleans. We are now also tracking St. John the Baptist Parish also. But this was the New Orleans and Jefferson County, and really tracking those on a casebycase basis to look for changes over time. And next slide is their mortality. And you can see its starting to stabilize.So this is how weve been tracking and tracing the epidemic as it moves through states and counties and communities. But as we started, we just wanted to note again We do see hopeful signs in Spain and Italy. They have completed nearly four weeks of mitigation with people really doing social distancing, staying at home, ensuring they were washing their hands. If they have to go out to the grocery store, theyre extraordinarily careful they send one person from the family.And so we can really see that beginning to work, and were very hopeful that, over the next week  although well see rising number of cases of people who lose their lives to this illness  were also hopeful to see a stabilization of cases across these large metro areas where the outbreak began several weeks ago.So thank you for your attention.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Admiral? Please.REAR ADMIRAL POLOWCZYK Thank you, sir. What I thought I would do is update on the average first, and then follow up on Dr. Birx and how were geographically aligning the supply chain.So the average We had three additional flights come in today, bringing a million gowns, 2.8 million N95 masks, 2.8 million surgical masks, 11.8 million gloves, 18.6 thousand gowns on three flights. And that material will be pushed out across the nation, delivered to hospitals, nursing homes across the country.Dr. Birx went through the geography. And so, over the last few days, Ive been aligning the supply chain to those areas, and then reaching down into those areas and extracting data from those areas on PPE burn rates.So, for example, I spent the weekend talking to the chief operating officer of Detroit, Hakim Berry, for example, and talked to the leadership at Detroit Medical Center, Audrey Gregory talked to the health officer at Oakland County, Michigan and then also with the Chicago health officer, Dr. Allison Arwady. So, reaching down to the  to a level to understand their needs.So were geographically aligning the supply chain. Right? So you can see Dr. Birx went through these counties, and were getting down to the county level. And then aligning it by priorities of point of care public hospitals, first, VA hospitals, private hospitals, nursing homes, first responders, acute care.Over the coming days, we will be making a push to the geographic areas that Dr. Birx mentioned  increasing the volume through the supply chain to those areas to give them weeks, not just days worth of supply  primarily using our industry partners that we are directing Cardinal, McKesson, Medline, Owen  Minor, Henry Schein, Concordance Healthcare  directing them to put product to the hospital door, the nursing home door, the first responders, directly to them.Were also working to push out millions of doses of hydrochlor THE PRESIDENT Hydroxy.REAR ADMIRAL POLOWCZYK Hydroxychlorine sic. Right.We are working the distribution there to push the same thing to the same impacted areas, working to get it into hospitals and to every pharmacy.And so my team is back there right now working the arrangements to make  make that to the hospital front door and primarily to the local pharmacies so a doctor can write those prescriptions and you can get it prior to having to go to a hospital.THE PRESIDENT Great job. Thank you very much, Admiral. Mike, please.THE VICE PRESIDENT Robert Wilkie, Mr. President.THE PRESIDENT Oh, good.THE VICE PRESIDENT I know you didnt see him.THE PRESIDENT Good.SECRETARY WILKIE Thank you, Mr. President and Mr. Vice President. My last appearance here, I mentioned that the President had given the Department of Veterans Affairs very specific instructions to be as aggressive as possible in response to the virus crisis, not only to protect veterans but also to help the American people.As many of you know, we have three primary missions at VA One is to support veterans health. The other is to provide veterans with benefits. And the third is memorial services. But we have a fourth mission, and that is to support the nation in times of national emergency, both in war and in peace.We provide a bridge from the federal government to the states and localities during these emergencies. As a result of that, I have ordered our veterans hospitals to begin preparing more than 1,500 beds to make them available both at the ICU and the acutecare level to the states and localities across the country. As a result of that, we have opened up approximately 100 beds in the metropolitan New York area, in Brooklyn, and in Manhattan, and East Orange, New Jersey.We will be informing the governor of Louisiana, John Bel Edwards, tomorrow, that we will give him access to our VA Medical Center in Shreveport, Louisiana, to come to the aid of the people of the Pelican State.Ive also given instructions to initiate the fourth mission in Michigan. We will be providing the people of Michigan access to hospital beds in both Ann Arbor and in Detroit. Weve also provided a pharmaceutical trailer to be used by the governor of Michigan, at Cobo Hall, to support the citizens of Michigan who will be coming into that facility for medical care.We have also informed the state  the Commonwealth of Massachusetts that we will be helping them in their efforts to protect their most vulnerable citizens in two of their nursing homes.So, in accord with the Presidents instructions, the 400,000 men and women of the Department of Veterans Affairs are in this fight. We are in the fight not only for the nine and a half million veterans who are part of our service, but we are in the fight for the people of the United States.THE PRESIDENT Thank you, Robert.SECRETARY WILKIE Thank you, sir.THE PRESIDENT Thank you.Mike?THE VICE PRESIDENT Thank you, Mr. President. And you all have just heard from several members of the Presidents White House Coronavirus Task Force, and we are  we are truly blessed to have the kind of leadership that we have.And whether it be Admiral Polowczyk, who is organizing the distribution of tens of millions of supplies whether it be Dr. Birx and Dr. Fauci, who are analyzing the data literally hour by hour or whether it be that wholeofgovernment approach that you stood up, Mr. President, calling on every agency of government, including the VA, HHS, and every agency  I hope the American people know, at this Presidents direction, we are  we are sparing no expense. We are doing whatever it takes. Were marshaling the full resources of the federal government to respond to the challenges facing communities impacted today by the coronavirus and making sure every community in America has the support.Weve also  as the President has said so many times, we forged a seamless partnership with states around the country. As the President just reflected, by this Tuesday, with another 840 military medical personnel arriving in New York City, there will be some 3,000 Department of Defense and HHS personnel on the ground to supplement and to provide relief to healthcare workers, really, at the epicenter of the coronavirus in the New York City area. And you just heard the VA is opening up  opening up bed space.In New Jersey, I spoke, at the Presidents urging today, with Governor Murphy. Five hundred ventilators, announced today, being built on the supplies that we have already provided. We were able to coordinate with him to extent all federal coordination on testing in New Jersey through May the 30th, if the need is there, and also opening up VA beds.I spoke with Governor John Bel Edwards in Louisiana and was encouraged to hear from him that, as you heard Dr. Birx say, that new cases were down slightly. In fact, were seeing a trend of some leveling among all the governors I spoke to today. And I know what the Secretary of the VA just announced  about opening up VA facilities  has been a priority for Governor Edwards, but I assured him were going to continue to send resources and supplies and personnel to support their healthcare.In Michigan today, I spoke to both the governor, Gretchen Whitmer and Mayor Mike Duggan of the city of Detroit. Governor Whitmer and I spoke about a new program in Detroit that will make hydrochloroquine available for 3,000 patients through the Henry Ford Hospital. Theyll be tracking, in a formal study, the results of that.But at the Presidents urging, I assured her that were more than prepared to make hydrochloroquine broadly available to pharmacies and doctors offices across the Detroit area as they deem appropriate.I also heard from Mayor Mike Duggan, as I told you, Mr. President. And he was so grateful to the FDA, not only for approving the Henry Ford Hospital tests that will be exploring hydrochloroquine, but also for the rapid approval of the 15 minute test. In fact, Mayor Duggan told me that he was able to use the 15minute test this weekend to test 150 first responders who had been sidelined because theyd been exposed to the coronavirus. They all got the 15minute tests. Theyre all back in the line of duty. And the mayor couldnt have been more grateful.In Illinois, I spoke with Governor J.B. Pritzker, as well as Mayor Lori Lightfoot of Chicago. As you just heard, not only have we sent 600 ventilators to the State of Illinois, but I assured  I assured the governor, I assured the mayor that while the principal focus that we have in the next several days is on the rising cases in the Greater New York City area and Louisiana, that Michigan and Illinois are in the forefront of our thinking. And at the Presidents direction, were going to make sure the people of Illinois and the people of Michigan have the resources, equipment, and support that they need.The governor did express great appreciation for the fact that our Army Corps of Engineers had constructed 500 beds at McCormick Place, and before the end of this week would construct another 2,500 beds for an overflow healthcare facility in Chicago.In fact, Mr. President, Mayor Lightfoot told me that the Army Corps was just outstanding in the job that they have been doing in constructing that extra bed space.As I close, let me just  let me just express, as the President did, our profound appreciation for Governor Kate Brown and Governor Jay Inslee. The State of Oregon and the State of Washington are leading by example. Oregon sent 140 ventilators to New York City. They looked at their circumstances and concluded that they could spare those at the point of the need. And because of the low and steady numbers in Washington State and in California, Governor Inslee today announced that they were sending 400 ventilators back to the Strategic National Stockpile. And those will be deployed at the point of the need.You know, not only are California and Washington State low and steady but, frankly, as I talked to governors and mayors today, I want to say to the American people that we  we are beginning to see the glimmers of progress. The experts will tell me not to jump to any conclusions, and Im not. But like your President, Im an optimistic person and Im hopeful.And the truth is, were starting to see cases and, most importantly, losses and hospitalizations begin to stabilize. But make no mistake about it I want to say to the American people, if that holds, if thats happening, its because of what all of you are doing. Its because the American people are putting into practice the coronavirus guidelines for America. Youre listening to your state and local officials. Youre practicing social distancing. Youre using drivethroughs instead of going into restaurants.And so on behalf of your President and all of us who are working, really, at every level, I just want to say Thank you, America. Thank you for responding. Thank you for putting other peoples lives in the forefront of your thinking, and putting it, again, over and above your own inconvenience and difficulty.Because of your efforts, there is, as the President just said, light at the end of the tunnel. And Im absolutely convinced With the continued cooperation, patience, persistence, and prayers of the American people, well get through this, and well get through this a lot sooner than we first thought it would take.Thank you.THE PRESIDENT Thank you, Mike, very much. Thank you.