James S. Brady Press Briefing Room525 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT I just had a meeting with Kevin McCarthy, future Speaker of the House, I hope. And hes done a fantastic job for the people of California. And also, the people of California have done a fantastic job, when you look at the  at the bump. You take a look at the bump and how theyre doing out there. So I congratulate everybody out there.But I thought Id have Kevin say a few words. So, Kevin, please.LEADER MCCARTHY Well, thank you, Mr. President. And I would like to thank you. On the basis of California, Governor Newsom says the work that youre doing together has been  youre working very closely  has been effective in California as well  the Vice President and the President.You know, today, Mr. President, I want to thank you, especially for the work that Secretary Mnuchin has done, especially for small businesses. Just today alone, I saw Bank of America had more than 10,000 loans in two hours.And for anybody whos in small business  My first small business was when I was 20 years old. You dont have income coming in right now, you get a loan, but for your rent, paying your employees, and paying your utilities is a grant. Thats part of the CARES Act. And I think youre going to find that a lot of small businesses are going to hire people back, keep them afloat through the next two months, and get this economy moving again as we get through this virus. So I just want to thank you for all that work.THE PRESIDENT Thank you. Great job youre doing.LEADER MCCARTHY Thank you.THE PRESIDENT Thank you. You go ahead. Ill talk to you later.Okay, thank you very much, everybody. And I want to start by saying that our hearts go out to the people of New York as they bear the brunt of the coronavirus pandemic in America. That seems to be the hotspot right now. But you have some others, as you know, that are very  very bad. Very bad. Louisiana is getting hit very hard. Parts of Michigan are getting hit very, very hard. New Jersey is  is surprisingly, its much greater than anybody would have thought. Theyre doing a really good job. The governor is doing a really good job out there.New Yorks first responders, EMTs, doctors, nurses are showing incredible courage under pressure. Theyre the best in the world. We will take every action and well spare no resource  financial, medical, scientific. We will not spare anything. Well get it back into shape.The Empire State  the governor is doing an excellent job. Theyre all working very hard together. At the request of the governor, as you know, the Javits Center, we have 2,500 beds, and were going to allow that to be a system where this horrible disease can be looked after, the patients can be looked after. That was going to be for regular medical problems such as accidents. And, you know, its very interesting, the governor is telling me we dont have too many accidents and very few people driving.So were going to put that facility into play, which is a big facility. The ship will be staying the way it is, but were putting that facility into play to help them.And today, also, the CDC is announcing additional steps Americans can take to defend against the transmission of the virus. From recent studies, we know that the transmission from individuals without symptoms is playing a more significant role in the spread of the virus than previously understood. So you dont seem to have symptoms and it still gets transferred.In light of these studies, the CDC is advising the use of nonmedical cloth face covering as an additional voluntary public health measure. So its voluntary you dont have to do it. They suggested for a period of time. But this is voluntary. I dont think Im going to be doing it.But you have a lot of ways  you can look at it as follows The CDC is recommending that Americans wear a basic cloth or a fabric mask that can be either purchased online or simply made at home. Probably material that youd have at home. These face coverings can be easily washed or reused.I want to emphasize that the CDC is not recommending the use of medicalgrade or surgicalgrade masks, and we want that to be used for our great medical people that are working so hard and doing some job. Medical protective gear must be reserved for the frontline healthcare workers who are performing those vital services.The new mask guidelines also do not replace CDCs guidance on social distancing, including staying in your home when possible, standing at least six feet apart for a period of time. Again, were going to all come back together here. Were going to all come back together. And practicing hand hygiene, which we should do anyway.A lot of things, I think, are going to spill over. Shaking hands maybe will stay with our country for a long time beyond this. One of the  one of our great doctors was telling me that  as you know, we have flus every year, and the number of people killed by the flu is very substantial. And said that if they didnt shake hands, that number would be substantially lower. So maybe itll stay. Maybe some of these things, long term, will be good. But those guidelines are still the best and the safest way to avoid the infection.So with the masks, its going to be, really, a voluntary thing. You can do it. You dont have to do it. Im choosing not to do it, but some people may want to do it, and thats okay. It may be good. Probably will. Theyre making a recommendation. Its only a recommendation. Its voluntary.Were also taking action to ensure the cost of no barrier to any American seeking testing or treatment of the coronavirus. The largest insurer nationwide, the BlueCross BlueShield System, has now announced that it will not require any copays  which is really something thats a tremendous statement  from patients of the virus treatment for the next 60 days, similar to the commitments of Cigna, Humana, Anthem. Those are great companies, and theyre all doing the same thing. So, copays. For them to do that is  its a big statement. We appreciate it.Today I can so proudly announce that hospitals and healthcare providers treating uninsured coronavirus patients will be reimbursed by the federal government using funds from the economic relief package Congress passed last month. So that was as per the question yesterday and actually the day before yesterday. This should alleviate any concern uninsured Americans may have about seeking the coronavirus treatment. So thats, I think, answers the question pretty well and very much in the favor of our great people.Im also signing a directive invoking the Defense Production Act to prohibit export of scarce health and medical supplies by unscrupulous actors and profiteers.The security and Secretary  the Secretary of Homeland Security will work with FEMA to prevent the export of N95 respirators, surgical masks, gloves, and other personal protective equipment. We need these items immediately for domestic use. We have to have them. But weve done really well with the purchase of items, and youll be hearing about that shortly.Weve already leveraged the DPA to stop the hoarding and price gouging of crucial supplies. Under that authority, this week, the Department of Health and Human Services, working with the Department of Justice, took custody of nearly 200,000 N95 respirators, 130,000 surgical masks, 600,000 gloves, as well as bottles  many, many, many bottles  and disinfectant sprays that were being hoarded. All of this material is now being given to healthcare workers. Most of it has already been given out. And weve given a lot to New York, a lot in New Jersey, a lot to other places.In addition to ensure that healthcare workers in New York have the protective equipment they need, the federal government, in the name of the Department of Defense, is providing about 8.1 million N95 respirators. Department of Defense. And weve already given 200,000 of them to New York City. Mayor de Blasio needed them very badly, so we got them to Mayor de Blasio in New York City. And they were very grateful. 8.1 million. And were going to be increasing that number from 8.1 million to more. Thats a lot of N95 respirators.Today, my team spoke with the CEO of Ochsner Health and the CEO of LCMC, the two largest health systems in New Orleans. They said they feel that they currently have enough ventilators  I think a lot of people are going to have enough ventilators  and masks, and appreciate what we did and all of the things weve been doing with them, working with them.The CEO of Ochsner, Warner Thomas  whos really been fantastic, I have to say  indicated a need for 230,000 surgical gowns. And I instructed FEMA to deliver them tomorrow. So theyll have the 230,000. Thats Louisiana  New Orleans. Two hundred and thirty thousand surgical gowns theyll have them by tomorrow.Were expanding the role of the armed forces in our response effort because no one is better prepared to win a war than the United States military. And we are in a war. The invisible enemy  remember.Over 9,000 retired Army medical personnel have answered their nations call and are now supporting field hospitals and medical facilities all across the country, like what I just told you, that Governor Cuomo requested we do something in Javits, where we take it over. And were going to have that manned by the military, because its very tough to get people  more people in the New York area. So were going to have it manned by the military  Javits Center.National Guard members have been activated to help states build new treatment centers and assist in the seamless distribution of medical supplies. That includes National Guard. The National Guard is assisting very strongly because the states were, in many cases, unable to have the delivery capability from warehouses and other places that we put the supplies. So Ive given approval to use the National Guards  the various National Guards in the different states. And theyre doing a fantastic job of not only protecting people but delivering material.The Army Corps of Engineers has assessed more than 100 facilities in all 50 states and is rapidly building temporary hospitals and alternative care sites in many states in New York, New Jersey, Michigan, Pennsylvania, Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, Illinois, New Mexico, Oregon, Washington Wisconsin, Ohio. Theyre doing a lot of work in just those states, plus additionals, that are being  will be announced probably tomorrow. But theyre doing some job. The Army Corps of Engineers  what a job theyre doing. And FEMA  what a job theyre doing.As we deploy the power of our military, were also deploying the skill of our doctors, scientists, and medical researchers. We continue to study the effectiveness of hydroxychloroquine and other therapies, and the treatment and prevention of the virus. And we will keep the American people fully informed on our findings. Hydroxychloroquine  I dont know, its looking like its having some good results. I hope that  that would be a phenomenal thing.But we have it right now in  approximately now, its increased to 1,500 people. I spoke with Dr. Zucker in New York  terrific guy, by the way. Hes  were doing a good job. And I spoke to Governor Cuomo last evening and this morning about it. So its been there for about three and a half days, but I think  and many other places its being tested too. And we have a tremendous supply of it. Weve ordered it in the case that it works. And its  it could have some pretty big impacts. And well see what happens.My administration is also working to get relief to American workers and businesses. On day one of the Paycheck Protection Program, as Kevin said, more than 3.5. billion in guaranteed loans have been processed to help small businesses keep their workers employed during the unprecedented time  this unprecedented time.And Bank of America has been incredible. Of the big banks, Bank of America has really stepped forward and done a great job. And then you have the community banks, your smaller banks. And were already at 3.5 billion going out to incredible people. But thats way ahead of schedule.The SBA and the Treasury are working around the clock, and our banking partners are really incredible. And theyre ensuring that the money gets to small businesses as quickly as possible, and then the small business, in turn, take care of employees that they would have had to let go, and now theyll keep them. And thats good. And then theyre going to open for business and theyre going to have their employees. And well try and get back to where we were. Eventually, were going to supersede where we were.The energy industry has been especially hard hit in the crisis. This afternoon, I met with Greg Garland of Phillips 66, Dave Hager of Devon Energy, Harold Hamm of Continental Resources, Jeff Hildebrand of Hilcorp Energy, Vicki Hollub of Occidental Petroleum, Mike Sommers of the American Petroleum Institute, Kelcy Warren of Energy Transfer Partners, Mike Wirth of Chevron, and Darren Woods of Exxon Mobil. I informed them that we will be making space available in the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to let American producers store surplus oil that can be sold at a later time.Theres a tremendous abundance of oil, primarily because of the virus. The virus has just stopped demand of everything, including oil. So were working with our great energy companies. These are great companies. They employ tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people. And theyve kept America really going for a long time. And no big price hikes, no big anything. I mean, theyve just kept it going. And now they got hit. But with all the jobs and all of the good that they do, were going to make sure that they stay in good shape.America is engaged in a historic battle to safeguard the lives of our citizens, our future society. Our greatest weapon is the discipline and determination of every citizen to stay at home and stay healthy for a long time. And we want them to stay healthy for a long time. So stay at home. This is ending. This will end. Youll see some bad things and then youre going to see some really good things. And its not going to be too long.We will heal our citizens and we will care for our neighbors, and we will unleash the full might of the United States of America to vanquish the virus.And with that, Id like to ask Mike Pence to come up, Vice President, and say a few words. And well have a couple of other quick talks on a couple of subjects, and well take questions.And its a beautiful Friday in Washington, D.C., and our country is a great place, and were getting better. Were getting better very quickly.This was artificially induced. We just said  they said, Close it down. You have to close it down. We closed it down and were healing. Were going to get it better fast.So, Mike, if you could come up say a few words. Please.THE VICE PRESIDENT Thank you, Mr. President. The President just outlined a number of the decisions that he made today on the unanimous recommendation to the White House Coronavirus Task Force.In addition, some good news Dr. Deborah Birx will reflect on in a moment. And some of the areas across America where we see evidence that the mitigation efforts  the American people putting into practice the Presidents coronavirus guidelines  are having a positive effect.In fact, today, California and Washington State, where the coronavirus first emerged in our country, remain  the cases remain at a steady but low rate. And we know, as Governor Newsom said yesterday, that theyre not out of the woods yet. We continue to flow resources.But we want to commend people in those states and all across the country who are putting into practice the social distancing and all the measures that state and local leaders are advising and that  and that the President has been advising in the coronavirus guidelines for America.Were also continuing to track significant outbreaks in New York State, New Orleans, Detroit, Chicago, and Boston. And as the President indicated, were prioritizing resources to support healthcare workers and to support those that are dealing with the coronavirus in those communities.On the subject of testing, now more than 1.4 million tests have been performed across the country. And as you all are aware, some 266,000 Americans have tested positive for the coronavirus.Abbott instruments, which now can perform a 15minute test across the country, have literally 18,000 of their machines across the nation today. But at the Presidents direction, FEMA is acquiring over 1,200 more machines to distribute to every state public health lab in America and also to our Indian Healthcare Service.And the big news, of course, over the last few days was that the FDA  once again, in near record time  has approved an antibody test developed by Cellex. And were continuing on the White House Coronavirus Task Force to examine ways that we can scale up these rapid tests and these innovative new tests not just to meet this moment, but to lay a foundation for testing across the nation in the months ahead.As the President mentioned, he met with energy executives today and continues to engage with leaders of businesses all across the nation.We also have held a teleconference today with commercial retailers. On the Presidents behalf, we thanked them for the way that people that operate malls and shopping centers around the country have embraced and enacted the coronavirus guidelines for America. Its had enormous impact on their businesses and their industries. But I heard  I heard from them their  their patriotic commitment to put the health of their associates and their customers first. And it was deeply inspiring.On the subject of supplies, the President detailed our work in that space. It continues to this day. As part of our air bridge, we had a flight arrive from China today to Columbus, Ohio. We continue to work each and every day, watching the data about cases, to ensure that, in particular, not just the personal protective equipment is available for the healthcare workers that are on the frontlines, but also that ventilators are available as the  as this epidemic makes its way through regions and communities. We are literally working hour by hour, day by day to make sure that patients, families, and healthcare providers have the equipment and the support that they need.As the President mentioned, weve seen over a billion and a half dollars in loans go out through the Paycheck Protection Program today.We have available for questions the head of the CDC today to speak about the new guidance on cloth face coverings.And Secretary Azar, in a few moments, will explain just how the Presidents decision to make sure that no American will ever have to worry about paying for testing or for coronavirus treatment.Im pleased to report, at the Presidents direction, Medicaid and Medicare already expanded to coronavirus treatment and testing early on.And of course, the President just indicated how major insurance companies across the country are not just waiving copays on testing, but theyre now waiving copays for at least 60 days on any coronavirus treatment.But now, as Secretary Azar will enumerate, now well make sure that any American, even those that have no insurance, will be able to receive treatment in a hospital and never have to worry about the bill.Ill just give a general reminder to every American There is evidence across the country that youre putting into practice the coronavirus guidelines for America. Every American has a role to play. And I want to thank you on behalf of the President and all of the American people for the way that youre stepping forward, youre engaging in the social distancing, and doing the things that will slow the spread.We encourage you to keep on keeping on. And we will get through this, America. We will get through the coronavirus to that day of renewed health and renewed prosperity that the President always describes. But well get through there sooner and well get through there when we work together.Dr. Birx?DR. BIRX Thank you Mr. Vice President, Mr. President. Thank you for your words of discipline and determination. I guess that really describes what were asking every American to really be disciplined about these guidelines and really determined to stay in that space of execution.You know we are just in week three on  of this full guidance measure. We really do appreciate the work of the citizens of California and Washington State, because we do see that their curve is different. Their curve is different from New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut. And we really believe that the work that every citizen is doing in those states is making a difference and it will make a difference for the frontline healthcare providers.We also are deeply grateful, despite the way their curve looks today, they continue to get ready for a different potential, so that they can ensure that patients, if they do get sick, have options and availability.To all the frontline healthcare workers in the  what we have referred to as hot zones  areas where the number of cases are quite significant  the New Orleans the New York City metro area, including New Jersey and Connecticut  the incredible work that the frontline healthcare workers are providing. Were really working now at a much more granular level, talking directly to hospitals to ensure that they have the supplies that they need in coordination with state and local governments.And to work  I think we discussed it yesterday, but I think it was quite clear also  and reiterated by Governor Cuomo today  that we have to support one another as each of these different metro areas, and other areas, move through their peak of new infections.When we talked about it at the beginning of this week, we talked about this week and next week being incredibly difficult. And we want to recognize the number of Americans who have lost their lives to this virus, and recognize the sacrifice that healthcare providers are making both in their care, but I think Im very uplifted by hearing their messages to families and their compassion for others to provide that kind of support to the individuals in the hospital.We continue to watch, in addition, the Chicago area, the Detroit area, and have some developing concerns around Colorado, the District of Columbia, and Pennsylvania. So as you can see, each of these will follow their own curves. Well be getting more and more of those case, over time, information in a very granular way to each and every one of you so that we can follow these epidemiologic curves as each of these states, counties, and communities move through this together in solidarity, and really ensuring that we can move supplies creatively around the country to meet the needs of both the frontline healthcare providers but also every American who needs our support right now.Thank you.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much.SECRETARY AZAR Well, thank you, Mr. President, for your continued leadership as we battle the coronavirus. First, I want to thank all of the members of the HHS team and the frontline healthcare workers across America, including those who  those service workers who serve in our hospitals, at our healthcare facilities, those who clean, those who deliver, those who stock the shelves  all those who are going into battle every day against the virus. Your country has asked you to serve as never before, and you have responded heroically.Im going to provide a brief update on the administrations plans to cover the testing and treatment for the uninsured. Getting the uninsured access to the care they need is a top priority for President Trump. We are already rolling out the 1 billion in funding from the Families First Coronavirus Response Act to cover providers expenses for testing and diagnosing the uninsured.The CARES Act, signed by the President, includes another 100 billion for healthcare providers. Under the Presidents direction, we will use a portion of that funding to cover providers costs of delivering COVID19 care for the uninsured, sending the money to providers through the same mechanism used for testing.As a condition of receiving funds under this program, providers will be forbidden from balance billing the uninsured for the cost of their care. Providers will be reimbursed at Medicare rates.We will soon have more specifics on how the rest of the 100 billion will go to providers. Were working to ensure that this funding is distributed in a way that is fast, fair, simple, and transparent.Id also like to remind people that if youve lost employer insurance coverage, you have insurance options that you should look into. Youd be eligible for a special enrollment period on the healthcare exchanges, and depending on your state, you may be eligible for Medicaid.Just as President Trump is working to ensure that COVID19 treatment is paid for, hes working to support new treatment options for patients. Thanks to the Presidents leadership, many providers are trying different experimental therapies, and we need as much data as we can collect as quickly as possible on how these treatments are working.Today, Oracle has developed and is donating to the government and the American people a web portal and platform to gather crowdsourced, realtime information from providers about how patients respond to potential therapeutics. While this doesnt replace the important work of clinical trials, it gives us data rapidly. If you are a doctor or a healthcare provider and you would like to help us, you can sign up today to begin reporting on your work. Theres a special registration page for providers at COVID19.Oracle.com.Thank you very much.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Okay, lets go. Steve?