James S. Brady Press Briefing Room535 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Thank you very much everybody. Thank you. So, America continues to wage allout war to defeat the virus  this horrible, horrible virus. You see how terrible it is, especially when you look at the numbers from yesterday. And we explained why were extending our nationwide guidelines to slow the spread by 30 days.Together, we have the power to save countless lives. Were attacking the virus on every front with social distancing, economic support for our workers, rapid medical intervention, and very serious innovation, and banning dangerous foreign travel that threatens the health of our people. And we did that early  far earlier than anyone would have thought and way ahead of anybody else.In this time of need, I know that every American will do their patriotic duty and help us to achieve a total victory. As governments and nations focus on the coronavirus, theres a growing threat that cartels, criminals, terrorists, and other malign actors will try to exploit the situation for their own gain. And we must not let that happen. We will never let that happen.Today, the United States is launching enhanced counternarcotics operations in the Western Hemisphere to protect the American people from the deadly scourge of illegal narcotics. We must not let the drug cartels exploit the pandemic to threaten American lives.In cooperation with the 22 partner nations, U.S. Southern Command will increase surveillance, disruption, and seizures of drug shipments and provide additional support for eradication efforts which are going on right now at a record pace. Were deploying additional Navy destroyers, combat ships, aircraft, and helicopters Coast Guard cutters and Air Force surveillance aircraft, doubling our capabilities in the region. Very importantly, our forces are fully equipped with personnel protective equipment, and weve taken additional safety measures to ensure our troops remain healthy.Secretary Mark Esper, Attorney General Bill Barr, National Security Advisor Robert OBrien will provide more details. In addition, Im going to have General Milley, who has done an incredible job in so many ways, say a few words. And also with us our Chief of Naval Operations, Admiral Gilday, who you know  I think you know and Commandant of the Coast Guard, Admiral Schultz.So Im going to ask Mark to start and then we can go. And after that, were going to take questions as it pertains to this. And then well go onto phase two, which is the virus itself. Okay?Thank you, please. Mark.SECRETARY ESPER Well, thank you, Mr. President. And good afternoon, everyone. I appreciate the opportunity to be here today as we make this very important announcement. At a time when the nation and the Department of Defense are focused on protecting the American people from the spread of the coronavirus, we also remain vigilant to the many other threats our country faces.Today, at the Presidents direction, the Department of Defense, in close cooperation with our interagency partners, began enhanced counternarcotics operations in the Eastern Pacific Ocean and the Caribbean Sea. This initiative is part of the administrations wholeofgovernment approach to combating the flow of illicit drugs into the United States and protecting the American people from their scourge.I want to thank all of our partners in this effort, to include the United States Coast Guard, the Department of Homeland Security, the Drug Enforcement Agency, the Department of Justice, and members of the intelligence community for their tremendous support and cooperation.To conduct these enhanced operations, the President has directed the deployment of additional ships, aircraft, and security forces to the United States Southern Command Area of Responsibility. Included in this force package are Navy destroyers and littoral combat ships, Coast Guard cutters, P8 patrol aircraft, and elements of an Army Security Force Assistance Brigade. These additional forces will nearly double our capacity to conduct counternarcotics operations in the region.Additionally, 22 partner nations have joined us in this fight, bringing with them a variety of intelligence and operations capabilities needed to defeat these criminal organizations.Last year alone, United States Southern Commands operations resulted in the seizure of over 280 metric tons of drugs, much of which was designated for shipment to America.While this was an incredible achievement, theres much more work to be done. Transnational criminal organizations continue to threaten our security by smuggling cocaine, fentanyl, methamphetamines, and other narcotics across our borders. These drug traffickers put our communities  communities at risk and destroy lives. Every year, tens of thousands of Americans die from drug overdose and thousands more suffer the harmful effects of addiction.Furthermore, corrupt actors, like the illegitimate Maduro regime in Venezuela, rely on the profits derived from the sale of narcotics to maintain their oppressive hold on power. The Venezuelan people continue to suffer tremendously due to Maduros criminal control over the country.Drug traffickers are seizing on this lawlessness by increasing their illicit activities. We must do more to prevent these drugs from arriving at our shores. These enhanced counternarcotics operations that are now underway will further disrupt the flow of illicit drugs to America, deny our adversaries the financial resources they depend on, and build the capacity of our partner nations throughout the region.I want to thank President Trump for his leadership and support to this critical mission. This is a particularly important time for this operation to begin, as nations around the world shift their focus inward to deal with the coronavirus pandemic, many criminal organizations are attempting to capitalize on this crisis. The enhanced operations were announcing today will keep the pressure on these criminal groups and protect the American people from the devastation caused by the flow of illegal drugs into our country.Mr. President, thank you for your leadership as we begin this important operation. While the men and women of the United States military work hard here at home to fight the coronavirus, we continue to take action around the world to defend our great country.Thank you and Id like to invite General Milley.GENERAL MILLEY Thank you, Secretary, for those words. And thank you, Mr. President, for your leadership. And I want to publicly thank Admiral Craig Faller, the Commander of the U.S. Southern Command out of Miami, for leading this operation, which is underway effective today and also Admiral Gilday, the Chief of Naval Operations, and Admiral Schultz for their contributions to this from their services. Theres thousands of sailors, Coast Guardsmen, soldiers, airmen, Marines involved in this operation.We came upon some intelligence some time ago that the drug cartels, as a result of COVID19, were going to try to take advantage of the situation and try to infiltrate additional drugs into our country. As we know, 70,000 Americans die on an average annual basis to drugs. Thats unacceptable. Were at war with COVID19, were at war with terrorists, and we are at war with the drug cartels as well.This is the United States military. You will not penetrate this country. You will not get past Jump Street. Youre not going to come in here and kill additional Americans. And we will marshal whatever assets are required to prevent your entry into this country to kill Americans.So, right now, the Navy has marshalled additional greyhull ships from both PACOM and EUCOM and for the naval fleet at Norfolk. And they are set sail already and they are in the Caribbean right now. In addition to that, theres 10 Coast Guard cutters and theres Special Operations Forces and Security Force Assistance Brigades, along with Air Force reconnaissance aircraft.The bottom line is Youre not going to get through. Now is not the time to try to penetrate the United States with illegal drugs to kill Americans. Were the United States military and we will defend our country, regardless of the cost.Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Secretary.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much, General. Beautiful. Thank you.Bill.ATTORNEY GENERAL BARR Thank you, Mr. President, and thanks for your decisive leadership as we confront this unprecedented challenge posed by corona  coronavirus. Id like to thank you for your support for this important initiative and thank all of  the Secretary of Defense and all the services for taking on this  this important initiative.Obviously, during this crisis, were all focused above all else on COVID19. But at the same time, our law enforcement and national security work must go forward, protecting the American people from the full array of threats.For the Department of Justice, one of our highest priorities must remain destroying the Mexican cartels. Their trafficking is largely responsible for the deaths, as we all know now, of 70,000 Americans a year. And also the costs of this dont count the destroyed families, the destroyed lives, the draining of our national treasure as state budgets are crushed by the burden that this  this narcotic trafficking causes.The President has made clear that we are in this fight against the cartels to win, and that we are not interested in half measures, and that the threat posed by the cartel is not just a law enforcement threat, but a national security threat as well.And, in December, building on your success with the Mexican President in forging a cooperative relationship in the area of immigration, you asked me to go down and meet with the President Lpez Obrador and our Mexican counterparts to see if we could also establish a more comprehensive and coordinated effort with the Mexicans in confronting the cartels. And weve had some successful visits and discussions, and currently have an array of activities underway against the cartels. And we anticipate, along with the Mexicans, that these are going to bear fruit in the months ahead.But it quickly became clear that we can obtain the most immediate results, the best bang for the buck, where we increase the assets involved in interdiction on both the Pacific and Atlantic side of Mexico in the Central American countries. For years, the cartels have been using these sea routes to take the cocaine up from, principally, Colombia  now also out of Venezuela. And these sea routes on both coasts have become the primary means of bringing cocaine up to the United States.Because of the superb work done by the Defense Department and our intelligence community, we know exactly, most of the time, where these traffickers are at sea. But were significantly  have been up until now significantly limited in our ability to interdict because of the numbers of the assets we have deployed.Prior today, this limitation meant we could only intercept a fraction of the traffickers that  and the various boats that were detected. This will now double our capacity, and we are talking about hundreds of tons of cocaine now  were now in a position to seize.So this is going to radically improve our interdiction efforts and put tremendous pressure, we think, on the cartels. And the effort that SOUTHCOM is undertaking is going to save lives by taking drugs off the street.Last week, I announced the unsealing of charges of narcoterrorism, drug trafficking, and other crimes against the former Maduro regime  16 members of that regime  and their involvement in trafficking of 250 metric tons a year. A lot of that comes by sea, as I discussed at that time.But also, because of the pressure were applying by our sea interdiction, they are trying to establish an air route out of Venezuela, up into Central America, which is one of the reasons were trying to move firmly against that corrupt regime.You know, this drug war has gone on for many decades. And at times in the past, weve had great success and great results. And at times, weve taken our eye off the ball  fortunately, not in this administration. And Im grateful that you, Mr. President, have brought focus to this fight and the determination to use whatever tools are necessary to win the fight. The cartels have to be defeated, both for the people of this country and for the people of Mexico and Venezuela.So Id like to thank you again, Mr. President, Secretary Esper, for providing the wherewithal required to help win this war against the cartels and others who seek to send illicit drugs into our country.And, with that, Id like to introduce Ambassador OBrien.AMBASSADOR OBRIEN Thank you, General. Thank you, Mr. President. Todays action is another example of the bold leadership of President Trump and his commitment to protecting the homeland against threats that seek to destabilize the United States and our Western Hemisphere.The uncontrolled flow of illegal drugs into the United States poisons our communities fuels the dangerous epidemic  epidemic of addiction and threatens the safety and security of all Americans.The impressive U.S. Navy, Coast Guard, Army, Marine Corps, Air Force, and interagency operation will address a range of threats to our national security posed by narcotraffickers and narcoterrorists.It will reduce illicit financial support for the drug traffic  for drug trafficking that provides the corrupt Maduro regime in Venezuela and other bad actors with the funds necessary to conduct their malign activities.Under President Trumps leadership, we will continue to execute our maximum pressure policy to counter the Maduro regimes malign activities, including drug trafficking. And this operation will help to choke off the funds that go to that corrupt regime.Maduro, narcoterrorists, and criminals should make no mistake that even as we are working around the clock to fight the spread of coronavirus, we will continue to execute the Presidents counternarcotics strategy.Were working on a number of important national security priorities as we face this public health crisis. The United States will continue to combat disinformation and fake news about this virus. We will work with the worlds largest oil producers to address volatility in global oil markets. We will always protect our servicemen and servicewomen around the world, including in Iraq and Afghanistan.I want the American people to know that President Trump and Vice President Pence and their administration are working tirelessly every day to protect the health and wellbeing of Americans and respond to the coronavirus.Our adversaries should take note however This President has a cleareyed focus on Americas national securitys  security interest. And let me be clear, it would be a mistake  a mistake with terrible consequences  for any adversary to attempt to do us harm during this health crisis  or ever, for that matter.Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President.THE PRESIDENT Okay. So do we have any questions on this? Because this group is going to go back to work. Theyre going to leave.John, please.