March 31, 2020530 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Thank you very much, everyone. Our country is in the midst of a great national trial, unlike any we have ever faced before. You all see it. You see it probably better than most.Were at war with a deadly virus. Success in this fight will require the full, absolute measure of our collective strength, love, and devotion. Very important.Each of us has the power, through our own choices and actions, to save American lives and rescue the most vulnerable among us.Thats why we really have to do what we all know is right. Every citizen is being called upon to make sacrifices. Every business is being asked to fulfill its patriotic duty. Every community is making fundamental changes to how we live, work, and interact each and every day.And I wouldnt be surprised to see this going on long into the future, when this virus is gone and defeated. Some of the things were doing now will be very good practice for the future, including for not getting the flu, which is very devastating also. So some of what were learning now will live on into the future  I really believe that shaking hands or not shaking hands washing hands all the time staying a little apart.Fifteen days ago, we published our nationwide guidelines to slow the spread of the virus. On Sunday, I announced that this campaign will be extended until April 30th.In a few moments, Dr. Birx will explain the data that formed the basis for our decision to extend the guidelines, and Dr. Fauci will explain why its absolutely critical for the American people to follow the guidelines for the next 30 days. Its a matter of life and death, frankly. Its a matter of life and death.I know our citizens will rise to the occasion, and they already have sacrificed a lot. We had the greatest economy in the history of our country. We had the greatest economy in the world. We had the best unemployment numbers and employment numbers that weve ever had, by far. And in one instant, we said we have no choice but to close it up. Just as Americans have always done, they will do a job like few have seen before. And theyre proud to do it, and I see that. Theres a great pride going on right now.Before we hear from our experts, we have a few other announcements. Today, the Treasury Department and Small Business Administration announced further details on the Paycheck Protection Program, which was made possible by the 2trilliondollar relief bill I signed into law last week. Nearly 350 billion in loans will soon be available through lending partners to help small businesses meet payroll and other expenses for up to two months. These loans will be forgiven as long as businesses keep paying their workers. This includes sole proprietors and independent contractors. Applications will be accepted starting this Friday, April 3rd. So, on Friday, April 3rd, thats when it begins.Earlier today, I spoke with leading Internet and phone providers who are doing a tremendous job of keeping our Internet and lines of communication flowing under very strongly increased strain. The business is more than anybody has seen before, because everyone is inside. Theyre all making calls.Among the leaders I spoke to were Hans Vestberg of Verizon Communications, Randall Stephenson of ATT, Mike Sievert of TMobile, Thomas Rutledge of Charter Communications, Brian Roberts of Comcast, John Malone of Liberty Media, Dexter Goei of Altice, Michel Combes of Sprint, and Aryeh Bourkoff of LionTree. Also, Pat Esser of Cox Communications and Jeffrey Storey of CenturyLink. Theyre doing an incredible job.If you look at other continents  if you look at Europe, they went a different route than we did, and much different route. We were talking about that just a little while ago. And theyre having tremendous problems. Other countries are having problems. Other continents are having problems.But with business at a level that nobody has seen it before on the Internet, its holding up incredibly well, and they expect that to continue no matter what happened and no matter how much more it gains, which, if it can gain more than it already is, I dont know, because theyre setting records.Let me also update you on the distribution of urgently needed resources and supplies. And we have a lot of numbers. Im going to let Mike Pence speak to that in a little while. But were giving massive amounts of medical equipment and supplies to the 50 states. We also are holding back quite a bit. We have almost 10,000 ventilators that we have ready to go. We have to hold them back because the surge is coming, and its coming pretty strong. And we want to be able to immediately move it into place without going and taking it.So, were ready to go, and weve also distributed  I just spoke with the governor of Michigan. Had a great conversation. And we sent a large number of ventilators to Michigan. Were sending them to Louisiana. We sent additional ventilators to New York, additional ventilators to New Jersey.And, I will say, in New York, FEMA is supplying 250 ambulances and 500 EMTs to help respond to the increasing caseload. Thats a lot of ambulances.In California, the Army Corps of Engineers is developing eight facilities to expand hospital capacity up to 50,000 beds. Fifty thousand. And had a great conversation last night with Gavin Newsom. Hes doing  hes doing a really good job. We  were in constant communications. The USNS Mercy hospital ship is operational. Its in Los Angeles and receiving patients.And, in New York, as you know, the Comfort  everybody watched that  its in place and will be, in a very short while, receiving large numbers of patients. Over a thousand rooms and 12 operating rooms.FEMA has also provided 100 travel trailers to assist with housing needs. And were ordering hundreds more.In Michigan, FEMA will soon deliver, in addition to the ventilators, 250bed field hospital, and Army Corps of Engineers is evaluating locations to build alternate care facilities. So were doing a field hospital, in Michigan, of 250 beds. And we may be doubling it up soon, depending on the need. Theyre doing a good job with beds in Michigan, but they may need more than the 250. So, FEMA and the Army Corps of Engineers are prepared to go there quickly and get it done.In Louisiana, were delivering two field hospitals to provide 500 new hospital beds. Ive been talking with the governor, John Bel Edwards, and the Army Corps of Engineers has been really doing incredible work, establishing 3,000bed alternate care site at the New Orleans Convention Center, which will be operational, believe it or not, this week. So were doing a 3,000bed alternate care site, and were also doing a 500bed new hospital. And thats in Louisiana, which really got hit. It started off very late, and it was looking good, and then all of a sudden, it just reared up it came from nowhere.In addition to the supplies were delivering, were also giving hospitals the flexibility to use new facilities, including surgical care centers, to care for hospital patients who are not infected. For example, I know that many expectant mothers are understandably concerned about exposing their newborn babies to the virus, and they should be. With our action yesterday, hospitals now have the authority to create special areas for mothers to deliver their babies in a very safe and healthy environment. Totally separate.Over the past two months, the U.S. State Department has organized one of the largest and most complex international evacuation operations in American history. Mike Pompeo has been working round the clock, along with Ambassador OBrien. Since January 29th, we have successfully repatriated over 25,000 Americans from more than 50 countries, where they were literally stuck  in some cases, locked in.And I salute the incredible public servants at the Department of State, as well as their counterparts at DHS and HHS who have played such an important role in doing this. You probably read about the young people in Peru and young people in Brazil, and they were absolutely stuck, and we got them out. Got them  almost everybody is out now, back home with their parents, their wives, their husbands.I want every American to be prepared for the hard days that lie ahead. Were going to go through a very tough two weeks. And then, hopefully, as the experts are predicting, as I think a lot of us are predicting, after having studied it so hard, youre going to start seeing some real light at the end of the tunnel. But this is going to be a very painful  a very, very painful two weeks.When you look and see, at night, the kind of death thats been caused by this invisible enemy, its incredible. I was watching, last night, Governor Murphy of New Jersey say 29 people died today, meaning yesterday, and others talking about numbers far greater. But you get to know a state. I know New Jersey so well, and you hear 29 people. And hundreds in other locations. Hundreds in other states. And this is going to be a rough twoweek period.As a nation, we face a difficult few weeks as we approach that  that really important day when were going to see things get better, all of a sudden. And its going to be like a burst of light, I really think and I hope.Our strength will be tested and our endurance will be tried, but America will answer with love and courage and ironclad resolve. This is the time for all Americans to come together and do our part.I appreciate a lot of the media. Weve had a lot of really good things said. I think only good things can be said when you look at the job thats been done.I just spoke with Franklin Graham who is an extraordinary person. And Samaritans Purse has been  like so many others  just been amazing and so fast. They did it so fast. Hes been doing that for a long time, but I think people are really seeing what they have done. Franklin Graham  a very special family.As we send planeloads of masks and gloves and supplies to the communities battling the plague  and thats what it is this a plague  we also send our prayers. We pray for the doctors and the nurses, for the paramedics and the truck drivers, and the police officers and the sanitation workers, and, above all, the people fighting for their lives in New York and all across our land.I watched as doctors and nurses went into a certain hospital in Elmhurst this morning. I know Elmhurst, Queens. Thats  I grew up right next to it. I know the hospital very well. And seeing it all my life  my young life. And I will tell you that to see the scenes of trailers out there and what theyre doing with those trailers  theyre freezers  and nobody can even believe it.And I spoke to some of my friends they cant believe what theyre seeing. And I watched the doctors and the nurses walking into that hospital this morning. Its like military people going into battle, going into war. The bravery is incredible. And I just have to take my hat  I would take my hat  if I were wearing a hat, Id rip that hat off so fast and I would say you people are just incredible. They really are. Theyre very brave. Theyre going in and they dont know  you have  you have lots of things flying around in the air. You dont know what youre touching. Is it safe?And you also see where you have friends that go into the hospital and you say, How is he doing? two days later. And they say, Sir, he is unconscious or Hes in a coma. So things are happening that weve never seen before in this country.And with all of that being said, the country has come together like Ive never seen it before. And we will prevail. We will win. And hopefully, it will be in a relatively short period of time.With that, Id like to ask Dr. Birx to come up and show you some of the latest  just the data that has been, I think, brilliantly put together. And, right after that, Im going to ask Dr. Fauci to speak. And Mike Pence is going to give you some of the recent events that have taken place and some of the statistics that we have that I think will be very interesting to hear.Thank you very much. Please.DR. BIRX Thank you, Mr. President. If I can have the first slide, please.A slide presentation begins.So always  and thats what this slide is labeled, is Goals of Community Mitigation. Really highlighting that this begins in the middle and the end with community. This community and the community of the American people that are going to have to do the things for the next 30 days to make a difference.I think you know from that large blue mountain that you can see behind me  and I just want to thank the five or six international and domestic modelers from Harvard, from Columbia, from Northeastern, from Imperial who helped us tremendously. It was their models that created the ability to see what these mitigations could do, how steeply they could depress the curve from that giant blue mountain down to that more stippled area.In their estimates, they had between 1.5 million and 2.2 million people in the United States succumbing to this virus without mitigation. Yet, through their detailed studies and showing us what social distancing would do, what people  what would happen if people stayed home, what would happen if people were careful every day to wash their hands and worry about touching their faces, that what an extraordinary thing this could be if every American followed these. And it takes us to that stippled mountain thats much lower  a hill, actually  down to 100,000 to 200,000 deaths, which is still way too much. Next slide please.Simultaneously, there was a modeler out of the University of Washington that modeled from cases up, utilizing the experience around the globe to really understand how this information that we have from Italy and Spain and South Korea and China could really help us give insight into the hospital needs, the ventilator needs, and really the number of people who potentially could succumb to this illness. It is this model that we are looking at now that provides us the most detail of the time course that is possible. But this model assumes full mitigation.Its informed every morning or every night by the reality on the ground coming in from New York, New Jersey, and around the United States, and is modeled and informed every morning so that it is adjusted so it is up to date every day. This is the model of the predicted fatalities and mortality in the United States. And as the President said, its very much focused on the next two weeks and the stark reality of what this virus will do as it moves through communities.Next slide, please.But this is a slide that gives us great hope and understanding about what is possible. On the bottom of the slide, where you can barely see that blue line at the very bottom, thats the current cases in California, the cumulative cases in California, where theyre doing significant testing.The next line up is Connecticut. The orange line is New Jersey. The blue line is New York. The yellow line is Washington. We all remember Washington State. It was just a month ago when they started to have the issues in Washington State, but they brought together their communities and their health providers, and they put in strong mitigation methods and testing. And you can see what the result in Washington State and California is. But without the continuation for the next 30 days, anything could change.Next slide, please.So Im sure youre interested in seeing all of the states. So on this slide is all 50 states and the District of Columbia. But I think it shows in stark reality the difference between New York and New Jersey and other states with similar populations in urban areas.Our goal, over the next 30 days, is to ensure the states that you see  the 48 across the bottom  maintain this lower level of new cases with the hope that we dont have significant outbreaks in other states, in other metro areas, as the community comes together to work together and ensure that the healthcare providers around the globe and in the United States are strengthened by our resolve to continue to mitigate community by community.This is done community by community. We all know people are in their states and in their communities. And were very dependent on each person in the United States doing the same thing following the presidential guidelines to a tee. I know its a lot to ask because youve done it for 15 days.So if you can show the next slide, please.So this is what gives us a lot of hope. This is the case finding in Italy. And you can see that theyre beginning to turn the corner in new cases. Theyre entering their fourth week of full mitigation and showing what is possible when we work together as a community, as a country, to change the course of this pandemic together. It is this graphic and the graphic of many of the states that gives us hope of what is possible with continuing for another 30 days.Amidst all that hope, I must say that like we warned about Detroit and Chicago, we start to see changes in Massachusetts. New Orleans continues to be a problem of new cases, although theyre stabilizing. And I think it really shows the depth of dedication of the American people to the healthcare providers, because they can see the strain that this puts on every nurse, doctor, respiratory therapist, pharmacists, and laboratory technician. Its working together to stem this tide of unrelenting sick people coming to their doors. No one has been turned away. No one who has needed ventilation has not received ventilation. But you can see how stressful it is for each of them.So I know its stressful to follow the guidelines, but it is more stressful and more difficult to the soldiers on the front line.As we started and  we will end with its communities that will do this. Theres no magic bullet. Theres no magic vaccine or therapy. Its just behaviors. Each of our behaviors translating into something that changes the course of this viral pandemic over the next 30 days.Thank you.THE PRESIDENT Thank you, Deborah.DR. FAUCI Thank you very much, Dr. Birx, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President. So what Dr. Birx has really said very simply is that there are really two dynamic forces that are opposing each other here. As I mentioned several times in our briefings, the virus, if left to its own devices, will do that dark curve that Dr. Birx showed you. The other dynamic force is what we are doing, what were trying to do, and what we will do in the form of mitigation.Now, these are very revealing bits of data because you saw what happened in Italy where you make the turn around the curve and you go. That doesnt happen all at once. Its a stepwise fashion. And if I explain the steps, which I will, youll see why we are really convinced that mitigation is going to be doing the trick for us. Because what you have is you have an increase in new cases at a certain rate. When the increase in new cases begin to level off, the secondary effect is less hospitalizations, the next effect is less intensive care, and the next effect is less deaths.The deaths and the intensive care and the hospitalization always lag behind that early indication that there are less new cases per day  the way we saw in Italy and the way were likely seeing  I dont want to jump the gun on it  were seeing little inklings of this right now in New York.So what were going to see, and thats  we got to brace ourselves in the next several days to a week or so  were going to continue to see things go up. We cannot be discouraged by that because the mitigation is actually working and will work.The slide that Dr. Birx showed, where you saw New York and New Jersey and then the cluster of other areas, our goal, which I believe we can accomplish, is to get to hotspot places  the New Yorks, the New Jersey  and help them to get around that curve, but as importantly, to prevent those clusters of areas that have not yet gone to that spike, to prevent them from getting that spike. And the answer to that is mitigation.Now, the 15 days that we had of mitigation clearly have had an effect, although its tough to quantitate it because of those two opposing forces. But the reason why we feel so strongly about the necessity of the additional 30 days is that now is the time, whenever youre having an effect, not to take your foot off the accelerator and on the brake but to just press it down on the accelerator. And thats what I hope and I know that we can do over the next 30 days.And as I said the other day and on one of the  one of the interviews, we are a very strong and resilient nation. If you look at our history, weve been through some terrible ordeals. This is tough. People are suffering. People are dying. Its inconvenient from a societal standpoint, from an economic standpoint to go through this, but this is going to be the answer to our problems. So lets all pull together and make sure, as we look forward to the next 30 days, we do it with all the intensity and force that we can.Thank you.THE PRESIDENT Mike, please.THE VICE PRESIDENT Thank you, Mr. President. And to Dr. Birx and Dr. Fauci, I know I speak on behalf of the President and people all across this country when I express our great admiration and appreciation to both of you for helping to steer our nation through this challenging time.The American people have now seen what the President saw when he made the decision at the end of 15 Days to Slow the Spread to ask the American people to give us 30 more days to continue to put into practice the Presidents coronavirus guidelines for America. And as you just heard from the experts, we have reason to believe that its working.As Dr. Fauci just said, there are difficult days ahead. Our hearts and our prayers go out to the families that have lost loved ones and those, as the President has just reflected, who we know are struggling at this hour in hospitals across the nation.But to each and every one of us, do not be discouraged because what you can do to protect your health, the health of your family what you can do to ensure that our healthcare providers have the resources and our hospitals have the capacity to meet this moment is put into practice the Presidents coronavirus guidelines for America.It really is what every American can do 30 Days to Slow the Spread, 30 days to make a difference in the lives of the American people, American families, and the life of our nation.Allow me to give you a few brief updates before the President takes questions.First and foremost, we continue to work very closely with governors around the nation. The President and I spoke to all the governors, all the states and territories yesterday. And since we were last together, the President and I have spoken directly to several governors around the country, including Illinois, Louisiana, Michigan, New York, and other states.At the present moment, the President has declared 29 major disaster declarations and authorized 10 different states to use full federal funding, socalled Title 32 funding, to pay for their National Guard.And, as of this afternoon, FEMA reports some 17,000 National Guard has been activated in states around the country to provide support for coronavirus response.On the subject of testing, we have now completed more than 1.1 million tests around the country. Were working very closely with governors around America to  to assist them in drivethrough and community testing centers.I spoke with Governor J.B. Pritzker of Illinois today about a testing center that theyve established in cooperation with the U.S. Public Health Service.We remind every governor and every laboratory and hospital in the country its imperative that you continue to report daily to the CDC the results of those tests to give us the visibility on the data to best inform resource decisions.Also, we  we reiterated today to governors in person, and also through correspondence to every governor, the importance of using their National Guard, if need be, to move medical supplies. FEMA is very busy, as youll hear in a moment, delivering literally millions of supplies to states around the country. But were urging every governor to make sure to work with their state emergency management team and maybe use the National Guard to move those supplies from warehouses to hospitals.At the present moment, as the President said, weve distributed more than 11.6 million N95 masks, more than 8,100 ventilators around the nation, millions of face shields, surgical masks, and gloves.We initiated an air bridge that the President announced yesterday. Flights have arrived in New York, one arrived in Illinois yesterday, and a flight will arrive in Ohio in the next 24 hours.FEMA is literally working and contracting around the world with now more than 51 flights that will be bringing vital medical supplies.On the subject of ventilators, FEMA is currently delivering 400 ventilators to Michigan, 300 to New Jersey, 150 to Louisiana, 50 ventilators to Connecticut, and in the last week and in the week ahead, more than 450 ventilators to Illinois. This is in addition to more than 4,400 ventilators that the President and FEMA directed to the state of New York.We just want people that are working on the frontlines, that the President just spoke about, Dr. Birx and Dr. Fauci spoke about  we want you to know help is on the way. And, at the Presidents direction, were going to leave no stone unturned anywhere in America or anywhere in the world to make sure that you have the resources and the equipment to do your job.So again, I want to just say, Thank you, America. Thank you for stepping up. Thank you for putting into practice the 15 Days to Slow the Spread. And thank you for the response that tens of millions have already had for the 30 Days to Slow the Spread.We encourage each one of you, as we have governors around the country, to spread the word about the guidelines, listen to your state and local authorities in areas that are more greatly impacted. We continue to urge people in the areas of New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut to refrain from travel around the country. And people whove traveled from that area, check your temperature and selfquarantine for 14 days.You can see from that chart the unique challenges people in the Greater New York City area are facing with the coronavirus. And we want to do all that we can to protect your health, focus resources on the community, and prevent unnecessary spread.Lastly, as the President highlighted yesterday, businesses around America are stepping up as never before. Tomorrow, Ill travel with Secretary Sonny Perdue to Gordonsville, Virginia, to the Walmart distribution center, just so the American people can see firsthand how the food supply is continuing to roll on 18 wheels and through air freight all over America.And we thank again the grocery store operators around America and everybody thats working out on the highways and byways every day to keep that food supply rolling, and rolling strong.To the American people though, we just want to assure you that were going to continue to work our hearts out  work our hearts out to make sure our healthcare providers have everything they need, that anyone struggling with coronavirus has the support and healthcare they need.And Im absolutely confident, seeing the way our governors are responding and seeing this team the President has assembled in the White House Coronavirus Task Force, confident of the prayers of the American people that well get through this. But it will take all of us doing our part, and well get through it together.