Rose Garden512 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Okay, thank you very much. Thank you. Very comfortable here. A lot of room. And we appreciate you being here.Yesterday I announced that we would be extending our social distance guidelines through the end of April. This is based on modeling that shows the peak in fatalities will not arrive for another two weeks. The same modeling also shows that, by very vigorously following these guidelines, we could save more than 1 million American lives. Think of that 1 million American lives.Our future is in our own hands, and the choices and sacrifices we make will determine the fate of this virus and, really, the fate of our victory. We will have a great victory. We have no other choice. Every one of us has a role to play in winning this war. Every citizen, family, and business can make the difference in stopping the virus. This is our shared patriotic duty.Challenging times are ahead for the next 30 days, and this is a very vital 30 days. Were sort of putting it all on the line, this 30 days. So important because we have to get back. But the more we dedicate ourselves today, the more quickly we will emerge on the other side of the crisis. And thats the time were waiting for. The more we commit ourselves now, the sooner we can win the fight and return to our lives. And they will be great lives  maybe better than ever.Today we reached a historic milestone in our war against the coronavirus. Over 1 million Americans have now been tested  more than any other country, by far not even close  and tested accurately.And I think what Id like to do is ask Secretary Azar, whos done a fantastic job, to come up and just say a few words about the fact that we reached substantially now more than 1 million tests.Please. Thank you, Alex.SECRETARY AZAR Well, thank you, Mr. President, for your leadership in marshaling all the resources that we have for this unprecedented testing effort. And thank you, Mr. Vice President, for leading a wholeofeconomy approach to testing.As the President mentioned, today the United States hit more than 1 million samples tested  a number that no other country has reached. Were now testing nearly 100,000 samples a day, also a level that no other country has reached.I want to thank every partner that has been involved in this effort. That includes all of the men and women of the FDA and the CDC, including Director Redfield and Commissioner Hahn. Together, the FDA and CDC have worked to balance the need for testing on an aggressive scale with the scientific rigor that Americans expect.Working with our testing coordinator, Admiral Giroir, they have now truly unleashed the ingenuity of the private sector and our state and local leaders, the centerpieces of Americas historic approach to testing.I want to thank those state and local leaders who have used their ontheground resources and knowledge to lead testing and make it much more easily accessible to the Americans who need it. Im also grateful to FEMA, with whom we are now working closely to get state and local partners what they need.I also want to thank CMS, where Administrator Verma has given healthcare providers unprecedented flexibility to scale up capacity for testing and treatment, and has ensured that tests will be paid for.Finally, we would not be where we are today without the many American companies, entrepreneurs, and scientists who have worked day and night to develop, as of today, 20 different emergency testing options. With the FDA responding to request for authorization typically within 24 hours, the number of options is growing nearly every day. FDA has also opened up new options for using the available tests, like selfswabbing and new options for reagents.I also want to thank FDA and other components of HHS for incredibly rapid action on other tools that we need. This weekend, we actually worked to secure 30 million tablets from Sandoz and 1 million tablets from Bayer of hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine, which are potential COVID19 treatments. And we authorized Battelles new decontamination machines, which can each sterilize thousands of essential N95 masks for reuse every day.So thank you, Mr. President, for your leadership and thank you to everybody whos played a part in getting us where we are today. Thank you.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Thank you.Id like to ask Dr. Hahn to come up  FDA  because we have some really good stuff. First of all, the numbers have been incredible on testing, but in the days ahead, were going to go even faster. And we have something from Abbott Labs, which is right here, and thats a fiveminute test, highly accurate.And I maybe can show that as we listen to our FDA Commissioner  the job hes done in the approval process. We talked about the chloroquine and the hydroxychloroquine just now. I thought that Id mention it, but Alex has already done that, but we have that now under test with 1,100 people in New York. And it was only the fast approval by FDA that allowed us to do that. It was a really rapid approval.And, Doctor, please say a few words. And this is the first one on the line of the fiveminute test from Abbott.DR. HAHN Thank you, Mr. President, for your leadership. Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your leadership of the task force. Im very proud of FDA staffs work in the last few months to expedite the availability of testing in this country. Im also incredibly appreciative of private industries ingenuity and willingness to work with us quickly to develop and distribute those tests.Weve had a substantial addition to testing with the authorization of pointofcare tests, especially the Abbott pointofcare test, which the President has pulled out of the box.A pointofcare test is a test that gives you a result where youre getting care. This is truly a patientcentered approach  whether its the doctors office, a hospital, an emergency room, an urgent care center, or a driveby testing site.Just like tests for flu or strep, where go to the doctors and you can get the test done, you can get an answer within minutes of having this test done. Now, with those tests being approved for Abbott and for others, these are available around the country. Theyre planning to scale up the number of tests that can be put out throughout the country over the next month. And patients can get the answer within as little as 15 to 5 minutes. And then, of course, an appropriate plan of treatment can be given.We at FDA are working quickly with Abbott, as well, and other testing approaches. And normally these tests take months to develop. I was on the phone today with the Abbott CEO. He told me that normally this is a 9 to 12month approach to developing a pointofcare test. They did this in collaboration with FDA and U.S. government within weeks.Abbott has shared that they will be delivering these tests tomorrow and then will be ramping up. Id just like to emphasize one thing The most innovative and safe products come from the private sector in partnership with government, taking an allhandsondeck approach, just like in this case. And the other point here is that Abbott and FDA worked together to make sure that we had a fast, reliable, and accurate test to market.Thank you.THE PRESIDENT Thank you, Doctor. Great job too. Really great job. Thank you, Steve.So, the pharmaceutical company, Sandoz, has been working with us very closely. And as Alex mentioned a little bit, 30 million doses of the hydroxychloroquine to the United States government has been given. And Bayer has donated 1 million doses of the chloroquine, which will soon be distributed to states and state health officials around the country. Teva Pharmaceuticals is also donating 6 million doses of hydroxychloroquine to U.S. hospitals. Thats 6 million doses.So the private sector, as youd say, Steve, has been amazing, whats happened. Really amazing. And were going to introduce you to some of the greatest business executives in the world today, no matter where you go, and theyre going to say a little bit about what theyre doing. And then we have so many more.The FDA has also authorized the  Battelles N95 respirator mask sterilization kits. Its an incredible thing. Ive been asking, Why are we throwing these masks away? You look at some of these masks and theyre significant pieces of equipment. And I say, How come you throw them away? Why arent they using sterilization techniques?And I got a call from Mike DeWine, the governor of Ohio  and hes a tremendous guy, a tremendous governor  and he said, We have a company named Battelle, and theyre having a hard time getting approval from the FDA. And I called up Dr. Hahn, and within a very short period of time, they got the approval. Steve, we really appreciate it. I want to thank Mike and I want to thank Steve.And theyre going to be able  each machine now can disinfect 120,000 masks per day. Now, think of that. Each machine can disinfect 120,000 masks per day. Itll be just like a new one. It can go up to about 20 times for each mask. So each mask can go through this process 20 times. And they have two in Ohio, one in New York, and one will soon be shipped to Seattle, Washington, and also to Washington, D.C. So thats going to make a tremendous difference on the masks.This morning, I spoke to our nations governors to help each state get the medical supplies they need. And yesterday, Vice President Mike Pence asked our nations hospitals to begin reporting total bed capacity, ICU bed capacity, ventilator capacity, and vital medical supply levels on a daily basis. And, Mike, thank you for the great job. Thank you very much.In New York, the 2,900bed hospital under construction, which is now completed  they completed it in three days you might say three and a half days  at the Javits Center will be completed today. Will be  and when you look  so theyre going up. I think were going to be adding some more beds, which will be completed today.And weve opened up  whoops, there goes our box. And my hair is blowing around, and its mine. Laughter. The one thing you cant get away with. If its not yours, you got a problem, if youre President.And nearly 3,000 medical beds will become operational. The U.S. Navy ship Comfort also arrived today, equipped with 12 operating rooms and 1,000 hospital beds. Work has begun on additional temporary hospital sites, including a 600bed capacity nursing home facility in Brooklyn, and numerous floors of a highrise building on Wall Street.So its been really pretty amazing what theyve done, and the Army Corps of Engineers, what theyve done. Theyve done  they just completed  think of it  a 2,900bed hospital in New York in just about three days, maybe four days. And the whole city is talking about it.On top of that, we floated in a great ship, which is going to be 1,000 rooms, which is being used for patients outside of what were focused on. And that will free up a lot of rooms for what were focused on. So, its been great.The Army Corps of Engineers has awarded contracts for the construction of alternate care facilities, also, at the State University at Stony Brook, State University Old Westbury, and the Westchester Community Center. Were sending 60 ambulances to New York City today. We have a total of 60. Were getting some additional ones, with up to 190 more to follow at different locations.To date, FEMA has obligated more than 1.3 million dollars  billion dollars in federal support to the State of New York. So were spending a lot of money in New York. Its a hot  its a hotbed. Theres no question about it. And were spending a lot of time, effort on New York, New Jersey. Spoke with Governor Cuomo a lot. Spoke with Governor Murphy a lot, in New Jersey. And were  were really getting the job done. People are very impressed, and Im very impressed by the people in FEMA, the people in the Army Corps of Engineers because what theyve done, Ive never seen anybody do anything like it.In addition to the 8,100 ventilators that weve already delivered over the next 48 hours, were delivering more than 1,000. Were going  400 ventilators are going to Michigan very shortly, 300 going to New Jersey, 150 ventilators to Illinois,150 to Louisiana, and 50 to Connecticut.FEMA and HHS already delivered 11.6 million N95 respirators, 26 million surgical masks, 5.3 million face shields, 4.4 million surgical gowns, and 22 million gloves.And I dont know if you just saw it. It just came over the wires that Ford just announced, just a little while ago, that they will produce, along with General Electric Healthcare, 50,000 ventilators, and theyre going to be doing it in less than 100 days.On top of that, we have other companies that are doing ventilators, including General Motors. But we have nine other companies doing ventilators. As we outpace what we need, were going to be sending them to Italy. Were going to be sending them to France. Were going to be sending them to Spain, where they have tremendous problems, and other countries as we  as we can. But the fact that were doing so many so quickly is a tribute to our great companies.More than 14,000 National Guard members have been activated and can help supplement state and local efforts to distribute personal protective equipment, where were sending a lot. We have planeloads coming in. We have 51 loads from various locations all around the world, and theyre landing. We had our first big cargo plane land this morning, and were getting it from all over the world.And were also sending things that we dont need to other parts. I just spoke to the Prime Minister of Italy, and we have additional capacity. We have additional product that we dont need. Were going to be sending approximately 100 million dollars worth of things  of surgical and medical and hospital things to Italy. And Giuseppe was very, very happy  I will tell you that. Theyre having a very hard time.Joining us this afternoon are CEOs of the great American companies that are fulfilling their patriotic duty by producing or donating medical equipment to help meet our most urgent needs. What theyre doing is incredible. And these are great companies.Darius Adamczyk of Honeywell  you know that. And Darius has been somebody that Ive dealt with in the past, and hes a great leader of a great company.Debra Waller of Jockey International.A friend of mine, Mike Lindell of MyPillow. Boy, do you sell those pillows. Thats unbelievable what you do.David Taylor of Procter  Gamble and Greg Hayes of United Technologies Corporation.And I just want to tell all of you that America is very grateful to you and what youve done. An amazing job youve done, and we thank you very much.Id like you to come up and say a couple of words, if you might, about your companies. Mike, come on up. Come on up, fellas, please. Come on up. You have to say what youre doing because its been really incredible.Go ahead, Mike.MR. LINDELL Okay, well, MyPillow is a U.S. vertically integrated company, which has been forced to adjust to the changing business environment as a result of the pandemic. MyPillows unique position as a U.S. company functions as a manufacturer, logistics management distributor, and directtoconsumer. Given our current business lines, we are experiencing the effects of this pandemic firsthand.What MyPillow has done  weve established an internal task force, which is monitoring future needs of companies across the country as a result of this pandemic. And given our position, weve begun to research and develop new protocols to address the current and future needs of U.S. businesses across multiple sectors, how companies are going to prepare themselves when they once again open up, and changes to their current operations in order to adjust to future threats and pandemics.MyPillow has designated some of its call centers to help U.S. companies navigate the many issues that resulted from this pandemic. Weve dedicated 75 percent of my manufacturing to produce cotton facemasks. In three days, I was up to 10,000 a day. By Friday, I want to be up to 50,000 a day.I proud to manufacture our products in the United States, and Im even more proud to be able to serve our nation in this great time of need. Thank you, Mr. President, for your call to action when  which has empowered companies like MyPillow to help our nation win this invisible war.Now, I wrote something off the cuff, if I can read this.THE PRESIDENT Okay.MR. LINDELL Laughs. God gave us grace on November 8th, 2016, to change the course we were on. God had been taken out of our schools and lives. A nation had turned its back on God. And I encourage you Use this time at home to get  home to get back in the Word, read our Bibles, and spend time with our families.Our President gave us so much hope where, just a few short months ago, we had the best economy, the lowest unemployment, and wages going up. It was amazing. With our great President, Vice President, and this administration and all the great people in this country praying daily, we will get through this and get back to a place thats stronger and safer than ever.THE PRESIDENT Thats very nice. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mike. Appreciate it.Please come on up. I did not know he was going to do that, but hes a friend of mine, and I do appreciate it. Thank you, Mike, very much.Please.MR. ADAMCZYK First of all, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President, the entire administration, and all the agencies, thank you for your strong leadership during this time of crisis. It is noticed and its making a difference.Second of all, Id like to say a big thank you to all the healthcare workers out there. Youre putting yourself in harms way every day, and we really respect what youre doing, and we couldnt be thankful enough for it. And I can tell you that more help is on the way.We, as Honeywell, were an industrial technology company. And one of the businesses that were in We protect the industrial worker. But what were doing today is were repurposing a lot of that equipment to serve the healthcare worker.A few days ago, we announced the startup of a new manufacturing facility in Rhode Island. Were going to be hiring 500 employees. We have already 200 onboard. And were going to be starting the production of N95 masks within the next two weeks.Furthermore, today were announcing the startup of another manufacturing facility in Arizona. Were going to be hiring another 500 people. And were going to be starting up production in that facility by the middle of May. So, in total, weve doubled our production of N95 masks already. Its going to double again within the next 60 days. And then within the next 90 days, were going to have 5x the capacity we do today.Furthermore, were going to be providing other safety equipment to support all the efforts going out.Lastly, Ill say a big thank you to all the Honeywell employees, and also announce a 10 million fund for them, for all the hourly and administrative employees who are having a hard time during this time of crisis.Thank you, Mr. President.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Fantastic. Thank you. Normally, Id shake his hand, but were not supposed to do that anymore. So, thats okay. Great job. Thank you to Honeywell.Please, go ahead. Debra, please.MS. WALLER Thank you, Mr. President and Mr. Vice President, on your guidance during this unprecedented time. And Im very honored to be here today. Founded by a minister 144 years ago, Jockey International is a familyowned company headquartered in Kenosha, Wisconsin. Since 1876, we have been providing socks and underwear for generations of families.It is part of our DNA to roll up our sleeves and help our country in her time of need. During World War Two, we made parachutes for the military. And today, we are eager to serve this great country by providing support for the healthcare workers on the frontlines of this fight. As the President and Vice President have said, its a wholeofAmerica approach and we are committed.Jockey has had a longstanding partnership with Encompass Group, headquartered in Georgia, serving the healthcare community. When we learned of the critical need for PPE, we knew we had to help. That meant restarting production on tier three isolation gowns. Monumental lifting by Jockey, Encompass, FEMA, and the FDA was done in just a few days to be production ready. As a result, we expect to begin delivering 30 to 50,000 gowns per week, helping those that need it the most right now.In addition, this week we are also donating 10,000 units of scrubs to the frontline doctors and nurses at the Javits Convention Center in New York City. We would not have been able to do this without the collaboration of the administration, representatives from the federal agencies, and Congressman Bryan Steil.Thank you very much, Mr. President and Mr. Vice  Mr.Vice President.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much.MS. WALLER Thank you.THE PRESIDENT Fantastic job. Thank you very much.MR. TAYLOR Thank you, Mr. President and Mr.Vice President, for bringing us together today. Im proud to be able to represent the men and women of Procter  Gamble, who every day, 24 hours a day, are working to build and make essential cleaning products, hygiene products, and healthcare products for families everywhere. These include healthcare workers and for institutions that are serving those on the frontline.PG people are the faces of brands you know and trust  brands like Tide, Pampers, Bounty, Charmin, Mr. Clean, and Vicks. In addition to making, packing, and shipping these essential items, theyve worked together to transform our plants to make things weve never made before, like hand sanitizers and facial masks. Some of these are already getting to national, state, and local agencies. Some of them are in the hospitals already.Everywhere around the world, PNG people are working every day to serve everybody  consumers. And theyre working together to bring together the full capability of our research and development, our engineering, our manufacturing, and our communications capability to make sure we make a difference to the consumers we serve and to all the audience that we can make a difference to. I want to thank them and Im very grateful for what they do every day in service to others.Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President for bringing us together today.THE PRESIDENT Thank you.Please.MR. HAYES Mr. President. Good afternoon. Im Greg Hayes from United Technologies, and on behalf of the 240,000 employees of United Technologies and the 70,000 employees at Raytheon, which will join together with UTC this Friday, I want to first of all say thank you to the President and the Vice President for your leadership during what is really a war. It is a different war than anybody has ever fought before, but its a war that were uniquely qualified to help.As one of the worlds largest defense contractors and some of the best technology, were using that technology to try and solve some realworld problems. Today, were working with the Air Force to try and help pilots as theyre moving medical evacuees with the COVID19 virus, such that they can be protected and that the patients can be protected.Again, were working also with logistics. And if you think about a war, strategy is important, but logistics wins war. Its  its imperative, I think, with FEMA, along with the Mr. Navarros office, that we coordinate all of these activities. Last week, we donated about 90,000 pieces of personal protective equipment to FEMA. Next week, well have another almost million. Again, working through our supply chain partners around the world.Were also today  this week, beginning the manufacture of face shields. Using the additive technologies that we have and the machines that we have available within UTC, well be able to produce approximately 10,000 shields in the next four weeks  again, all needed equipment. We stand ready to help in any way we can. We dont need the Defense Production Act to ask us to act. All of the people at UTC and Raytheon are focused on this war and winning it.Again, I also want to say thank you to all of our employees for their work during this crisis, as well as to the frontline medical and other first responders. Thank you very much.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Thank you. Fantastic. Great company. Those are great companies. Thank you very much.Id like to ask Seema to come up and say a few words about what youre doing and whats happening and how positive its been. I really appreciate it. Come on up, Seema Verma.ADMINISTRATOR VERMA Thank you, Mr. President. And let me start by saying, I want to convey my deepest sympathies to those that have lost loved ones to the coronavirus. Were all thinking of you.Today is Doctors Day and, even without it, I want to send a message of gratitude to the foot soldiers in this war men and women that are providing care and comfort to Americans that have been affected by the virus. Your country is grateful.And, in short, as the President has said, we are engaged in a war against an invisible enemy. In wartime, the assumptions of peacetime must be revisited and adjusted to meet the demands of the moment. And so, under the Presidents leadership, CMS is waiving a wide and unprecedented range of regulatory requirements. Now, many healthcare systems wont need these waivers and they shouldnt use them if they dont need them, but the flexibilities are there.In a time of crisis, regulations shouldnt stand in the way of patient care. And there are several components to our announcement today, but the first one is CMSs Hospitals Without Walls, and this is going to allow hospital systems to create new treatment sites outside of their facility to expand capacity and be able to safely separate patients that are infected with the coronavirus and those that are not.Now, FEMA is doing incredible work, setting up temporary hospitals in New York and other areas. But under these waivers, we are empowering local communities to complement and augment the work of FEMA and allowing hospital systems to tap into the capacity that already exists in their communities, making use of dorms and hotels or gymnasiums, and allowing the main hospital to focus on those that need the most intensive care. There are surgery centers out there today that are delaying elective surgeries and they may have excess capacity that can be devoted to hospitallike care.Were also making changes to the Medicare program to facilitate testing. So some people that need a coronavirus test cant leave their home or patients that are in a nursing home, and now we will pay for labs to go out to these locations and perform testing.And were also expanding the workforce. We are taking action today to relax some of our regulations to allow hospitals to increase their workforce. And were allowing a broad range of flexibilities so that we can let healthcare workers operate at the top of their license.And we are also allowing our hospitals to give  to provide more support for our healthcare workers. Under todays regulations, they can only provide minimal support to healthcare workers, but now were going to allow them to provide child care, meals, laundry services.And then theres also telehealth. The President already directed a dramatic expansion of telehealth to our nations 62 million seniors with Medicare. And were so proud of all the healthcare  healthcare providers and patients that have rapidly implemented telehealth.But today, were announcing that were going to go even further and were going to be paying for doctors to make phone calls with their patients and provide care over the phone. And were getting rid of longstanding barriers to telehealth in the Medicare program, allowing emergency rooms to use telehealth and eliminating requirements that some visits be provided face to face.And I also want to mention that, on Saturday, the President directed CMS to offer advance payments for healthcare providers that are experiencing cashflow problems. We know that many providers are complying with our recommendations to delay nonessential elective surgeries, and they shouldnt be penalized for doing the right thing.Now, Ive barely scratched the surface of all the flexibilities that we are offering healthcare workers and healthcare systems. These flexibilities will provide a lot of flexibility from regulations that are ill suited to the unprecedented needs of this emergency. And doctors and nurses and other healthcare professionals that are working long hours and sacrificing times with their families and risking their lives will have the flexibility that they need to confront the needs of the coronavirus pandemic.And there are many heroes in this war, but I want to take an opportunity to thank the team at CMS. These folks have worked day and night. The flexibilities that are in this regulation  in any regulation  usually take CMS a year, but we did this in two weeks, and I couldnt be more honored and privileged to serve alongside these dedicated public servants.Thank you.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much, Seema. Fantastic job. And youre doing a great job.So, we are in the midst of something that is very difficult, but we are going to win its just a question of when. We want to do it as quickly as possible. We want to have as few deaths as possible.And we will meet again tomorrow for some statistics, and some updates as to where we are, where we think were going, and timing. I think timing is going to be very important because we have to get our country back. We have to get our country back to where it was and maybe beyond where it was because weve learned so much.But we will have lost a lot of people. And in many ways, theyre heroes. And if you look at whats happening with our medical professionals, its a danger. Theyre  theyre warriors. Men and women are doing a job that  the likes of which I dont think anyones ever seen. I see them coming out of planes today, going into New York, going into the most dangerous locations, dangerous areas. And they go in there and they just want to do the job. And you see the numbers. You see the numbers like I see the numbers.I have some friends that are unbelievably sick. We thought they were going in for a mild stay. And, in one case, hes unconscious  in a coma. And you say, How did that happen?So I just want to thank all of the great professionals men and women  doctors and nurses and paramedics and first responders and law enforcement. By the way, if you look at New York and you see how  the effect that this had on law enforcement, its been incredible. These are great people  firefighters. Great people. Theyre helping in so many different ways.So, thank you very much. And if youd like, well take a few questions. John, please.