Rose GardenMarch 29, 2020543 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Appreciate everybody being here. Beautiful day in the Rose Garden. Tremendous distance between chairs. Social distancing. You practice it very well. We appreciate it. Thats great.I want to start today by highlighting several critical developments on both the testing and treatment that will help us win our war against the coronavirus.On Friday, the FDA authorized a new test developed by Abbott Labs that delivers lightningfast results in as little as five minutes. Thats a whole new ballgame. I want to thank Abbott Labs for the incredible work theyve done. Theyve been working around the clock. Normally, this approval process from the FDA would take 10 months, and even longer, but we did it in four weeks. Abbott has stated that they will begin delivering 50,000 tests each day, starting this week.And as you know, even before this development, weve been doing more test  tests than any other country anywhere in the world. Its one of the reasons that we have more cases than other countries, because weve been testing. Its also one of the reasons that were just about the lowest in terms of mortality rate, because weve been doing more testing. So we have bigger numbers to look at.I want to also thank General Semonite, of the Army Corps of Engineers, and General Polowczyk, whos here with us, whos going to say a few words in a little while. What the Army Corps of Engineers did, along with FEMA, in New York was incredible. They built 2,900 beds worth of hospital. An incredible hospital in the Javits Center, which I know well. And I just want to say that was unreal. They did it in less than four days. People have never seen anything like that. And its an incredible, complex, topoftheline hospital. They did it so quickly. Everyone is trying to figure out how they did it, including me  and I was a good builder. But they did it very quickly, Mike. So were very  were very happy.So I want to thank Army Corps of Engineers, FEMA  the incredible job they have done.Now theyre moving to other locations throughout the country where they already have people building hospitals. Were doing them in Louisiana and New Jersey  many, many other places. But these are incredible men and women, and they worked around the clock.And the people of New York are very happy. Governor Cuomo expressed his thanks, which we appreciate. But these are  I mean, theres nobody could have done a job like that. Most people have never seen anything like it.The deployment of rapid testing will vastly accelerate our ability to monitor, track, contain, and ultimately defeat the virus. We will defeat the virus. It will also allow us to test doctors, nurses, and other healthcare workers immediately and enable us to act quickly and aggressively to shut down the spread of the virus  so important  in critical facilities like hospitals and nursing homes. And we will ensure that we can give cities and states the best information to guide local decision makers and making.I want to point out that the hydroxychloroquine is being administered to 1,100 patients  people in New York  along with the ZPak, which is azithromycin. And its very early yet its only  it started two days ago. But we will see what happens.I want to thank Stephen Hahn, whos a great doctor  left one of the best jobs in our country running an incredible Hospital in Texas. And hes the head of the FDA. And Stephen got approval for that so fast. Lets see how it works. It may, it may not. But we may have some incredible results. Were going to know soon. So its tested  its being tested on 1,100 people in New York.The FDA is also allowing the emergency use of a bloodrelated therapy called convalescent plasma as an experimental treatment for seriously ill patients. This treatment involves taking blood plasma from patients who have already recovered from the virus. So theyve recovered theyre strong. Something was good in them that worked. And so we take the plasma from those people that have recovered so well  meaning, their plasma is rich in antibodies against the virus  and transfusing it into six six patients  sick patients, very  very, very powerfully.So, sick patients will be transfused with the blood taken to boost their immune system. Well see what happens. And were having some early results that are good, but we will see. And thats going, I think, very rapidly. Again, we got approvals in, really, very quick time.Were also looking at an approval for the sterilization of masks. I kept saying to myself  Id see some of the masks are very complex. Were delivering millions, by the way. Millions. But I kept saying, Why arent they able to use that mask a second, third, fourth time?And Mike DeWine, the great governor of Ohio, called me. They have a company that is in the final process of getting approval for the sterilization of masks, and in some cases, depending on the mask  some of these masks are very, very strong, very powerful, very strong material  theyre able to sterilize the mask up to 20 times. So thats, I guess, like getting 20 masks. And so we worked on that. As soon as I heard from Mike today, I got involved, and the FDA is now involved. And were trying to get a fast approval for the sterilization of masks. That would be a tremendous difference. That would be really helpful.While much of the research has to be done  we have a lot of research left to do, obviously  this treatment on plasma has shown promising results in other countries. Were in communication with other countries, and very strong communications. And theyre very reliant on us in just about all cases. We have the greatest people in the world. Theyre very, very anxious to find out how were doing on our different things, whether its a cure or whether its really anything having to do with getting people better. We have some interesting things will be announced, I think over the next few weeks, but well see what happens. Theyre being tested right now.The vaccines are moving along very rapidly. The vaccines are an answer, but Id like to see if we could do something therapeutically so that we could take care of the people that are already sick. And were working on that at a level that people would be amazed. These are incredible people. They dont stop.This method also has been used for more than a century  and thats the bloodrelated therapy  you know, more than a century to fight off infectious diseases. So its not unusual. Our level of complexity has changed, but its a concept thats been used for a long time, including during the Spanish Flu epidemic. And that was really a pandemic of proportions like, frankly, nobody has seen until what were facing now. That was in 1918. You know what the result of that was probably from 75 to 100 million people were killed.And also, other viruses, like the one in this outbreak  this is a very tough one. This is a tough one because it spreads so quickly, like nothing weve seen. It spreads so easily, so quickly.Were unleashing every tool in our nations vast arsenal  economic, medal sic  medical. If you look, medical, and scientific, military. Homeland Security is working very, very hard with all of them in order to vanquish the virus.As you know, every level of government  state, local, and federal  is working nonstop to obtain more personal protective equipment for frontline workers. Were delivering vast orders of this material. Im going to ask a couple of the people here to join me that both make it and deliver it.Joining us today are the leaders of Americas largest distributors of pharmaceuticals and medical equipment, including McKesson, Cardinal Health, Henry Schein, Owens  Minor, Medline, FedEx, and UPS. We just concluded a very productive meeting about ways to keep our supply chains and delivery systems moving at top speed.And maybe Id like to just ask for a couple of minutes for Mike Kaufmann to come up, and maybe Ed Pesicka. Mike is with Cardinal and Ed is Owen  Minor.But I  and I appreciate. And if anybody else has anything, please come up. But if you could come up, Mike, for a second and, Ed, for a second. Just, if you could maybe say what you told me before when we had the meeting. Thank you.MR. KAUFMANN Thank you, Mr. President, and thanks for your leadership on this. Because of that leadership, we have really seen the government agencies working with industry like no time before. We have seen HHS, FEMA, the CDC work incredibly effectively with all of the distributors, and all of the distributors working together for the good of the people.And all of us have been so focused on making sure that we take care of our customers because our customers are the ones that are taking care of the patients every day. And we need to do everything we can to make things good for them. And so its been great to see how well all these government agencies have been coordinating together with us.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much.MR. KAUFMANN Thank you.THE PRESIDENT Appreciate it. Please.MR.PESICKA Thank you, Mr. President. Let me first start by thanking the administration for all the support you have provided to the industry. And one of the things we did  we did hear the challenge. And starting in January, weve ramped up our production in the Americas, including our facility in North Carolina, where we are now manufacturing an additional 40 to 50 million masks per month to get into the U.S. healthcare system.And we talked a little about this in the premeeting One of the issues were struggling with is the demand increase. You know, used an anecdotal example of one hospital in New York that traditionally uses roughly ten to twenty thousand masks a week are now using two to three hundred thousand masks a week. So you multiply that times the entire pop  the entire U.S., let alone the same demand outside of the U.S. Thats part of the issue were running into Is even with a significant rampup in supply, you know, theres still that demand that is  that is much greater than that supply.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much.MR.PESICKA Thank you.THE PRESIDENT And I bring that up because when we discussed, back in a room  we were in a conference room  a very nice one, actually its called the Cabinet Room  that statement was made that theyve been delivering for years, 10 to 20,000 masks. Okay, its a New York hospital. Very  its packed all the time. How do you go from 10 to 20, to 300,000? 10 to 20,000 masks to 300,000?Even though this is different, something is going on, and you ought to look into it as reporters. Where are the masks going? Are they going out the back door? How do you go from 10,000 to 300,000? And we have that in a lot of different places. So, somebody should probably look into that, because I just dont see, from a practical standpoint, how thats possible to go from that to that. And we have that happening in numerous places  not to that extent that was the highest number Ive heard. Thats the highest number youve seen, I would imagine, right?But this man makes them and delivers them to a lot of hospitals. He knows the system better than anybody. And I think you were more surprised than I was when you saw that number. So thank you very much. I hope I didnt get any of your clients in trouble, but it could be that they are in trouble. So they have to look at that in New York.FEMA is working with these companies to launch Project Airbridge to expedite the movement of critical supplies from other countries to the United States. The first flight arrived at JFK Airport, New York, this morning, filled with 80 tons of personal protective equipment, including 130,000 N95 respirators  those are the ones that we were talking about before  1.8 million face masks and gowns, 10.3 million gloves, and many other things. Millions and millions of different items.FEMA has scheduled 19 additional flights and is adding more daily. We hope to have about 50 flights. Were going to have  I think including the one that came in today, were up at 51 flights with these massive planes from the different companies. That was so nice to be here today. Would you like to say something on behalf? Please, come up. Thank you.MS. LANE Thank you, Mr President, for the incredible leadership. I will share with you that UPS is really proud to be part of this effort. Vice President Pence and I had the opportunity to speak before, and the way were going to win this war is with great logistics, and UPS is going to be part of that effort. We have a Big Brown army  495,000 UPSers across the country that are ready to deliver.Were bringing in the supplies from anywhere around the world as fast as we can so that they can serve the communities that need them most. Were proud to be partnering with the states as well, because we know that in partnership with those states, we can deliver what is needed everywhere.So thank you, Mr. President.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Great job youre doing.Please. Thank you very much.MR. TYLER Well, thank you, Mr. President. I would certainly like to echo my colleagues comments that the collaboration amongst many of the government agencies and the private market and the distributors represented here today has been incredible. It has been increasing and ramping up over the past weeks.Todays first delivery of Operation Airbridge, I think, is the first evidence that its working. The 51 flights you referenced were excited about. We look to build upon that. So I would echo my thanks for your leadership, and certainly to the staffs, for the terrific partnership and the commitment to protect the people we think about most often, which are the people on the frontlines providing care.And maybe just a quick word of thanks, on behalf of all the CEOs here, to our teams that continue to show up in warehouses across the country, in pharmacies across the country, and do their jobs to keep the supply chain going. The supply chain is working. Its resilient. Supply is a challenge, and were tackling that.Thank you.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Great job. Please.MR. MILLS Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. And thanks to FEMA and HHS. I think great leadership, and its really working well. The demand has skyrocketed, and were doing a lot of things to bring in more masks, more  other protective apparel. We are involved in reprocessing masks, and weve already started at about 100,000 masks per day, and we hope to expand from there. So were quite optimistic about it.THE PRESIDENT Great job. Yeah.MR. MILLS Thank you.THE PRESIDENT Fantastic job.Anybody else, if you want? Yes, please. Youre doing such a great job, we have to MR. CONNETT Well, thanks.THE PRESIDENT  have everybody if they want.MR. CONNETT Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. We appreciate the opportunity to work with your administration on a lot of collaborative fronts. Number one, weve all talked about PPE products thats critical. And its not just to the hospitals  thats a must  but its really to all healthcare providers out there working on the frontline. So our commitment is there to get it to the hotspots and get it to the care providers that are taking care of those patients. Its absolutely key.Second, we talked in there about buying in America and getting resources back here and manufacturing in America. That is critical. A lesson to be learned from where we are.And lastly, were proud that we introduced a test. We need to get some more tests out there in a rapid form. Were excited about that. Weve worked with your administration very closely, and the FDA, and were very grateful for that because its a quick, rapid antibody test that is needed as well. So were really proud to work with your administration. All going well. Thanks so much.THE PRESIDENT Thank you. Thank you.So thank you all very much and for the great job youre doing. Its really incredible, frankly. Many of the states are stocked up. Some of them dont admit it, but they have  we have sent just so much  so many things to them and  including ventilators.You know, theres a question as to hoarding of ventilators. Some hospitals and independent hospitals  and some hospital chains, as we call them  they are holding ventilators they dont want to let them up. We need them for certain areas where theres big problems. We cant hold them if they think there might be a problem weeks down the road.So weve delivered a lot, and this group has been really fantastic. We want to thank you. And UPS and FedEx, in particular, youve gone absolutely out of your way, so we appreciate everything youve done and delivered.The federal government continues to mobilize every resource to make sure our frontline doctors and nurses have the equipment needed to save American lives.Yesterday, I visited Naval Station Norfolk as the USNS Comfort departed from New York three weeks ahead of schedule, fully loaded with 12 operating rooms, 1,000 hospital beds, and hundreds of the best doctors, nurses, and medical professionals anywhere in the United States Navy  anywhere, frankly, in the United States. It was an incredible thing to see. Mostly you saw that on television as it was leaving. It left literally three weeks early. It was under maintenance, and they got the maintenance done very quickly. They work round the clock as many of the people have. And it was a great sight.Additionally, two of the countrys largest health insurers, Humana and Cigna, are announcing that they will waive copays  which is a big deal for anybody that understands insurance they dont waive copays too easily, but weve asked them to do it and theyve done it  coinsurance and deductibles for the coronavirus treatments to help ease the financial burden on American families during this pandemic. So theyre waiving co pays, coinsurance, and deductibles. Nobody has  I dont think anyone has heard of that one. Have you heard of that one before? I havent heard. I want to thank them. Great companies.Today I spoke with Wolfgang Puck. Wolfgang Puck is a great restauranteur, as you know, as is JeanGeorges and Thomas Keller and Daniel Boulud, and other leaders in the restaurant business, which has been probably one of the hardesthit industries. Ive directed my staff to use any and all authority available to give restaurants, bars, clubs incentives to stay open. Youre going to lose all these restaurants and theyre not going to make it back. They have to get going.So what Im doing is Im going to tell Secretary Mnuchin and also our great Secretary of Labor, who you know very well, to immediately start looking into the restoring of the deductibility of meals and entertainment costs for corporations that set the restaurant business back a lot when it was done originally, and then done not so long ago.And were going to go to deductibility so that companies can send people to restaurants. I think itll have a tremendous impact and maybe keep them open. I mean, dont forget, some are closing right now, despite the fact that they could be open in the nottoodistant future, and we expect that. But there are some that arent going to be able to get open, and we want to make sure they do.So were going to look at the restoration  restoring the deductibility of meals and entertainment costs for corporations so that corporations can send people to restaurants and take a deduction on it like they did in the old days. That was when restaurants were doing really well.The financial relief bill I signed on Friday provided historic relief for American workers and small businesses, and it includes 350 billion in job restoration and retention. So if you look at job retention loans for small businesses, thats a big deal, with loan forgiveness available for businesses that continue paying the worker. So its 350 billion  job retention loans for small businesses with loan forgiveness available for businesses that continue paying workers. I mean, how about that?Three hundred billion dollars in direct cash payments are being sent to every American citizen earning less than 99,000 per year 3,400 for the typical family of four. So theyll be getting a check for 3,400 for the typical family of four.Approximately 250 billion in expanded unemployment benefits. Under this plan, the average worker who has lost his or her job will receive 100 percent of their salary for up to four full months. The bill provides for these unemployment checks to be delivered through the existing state unemployment systems, not us. State.And I was opposed to this method because many of the states have very antiquated computer systems that are 45 years old, and theyre not prepared to handle this kind of distribution, this kind of money coming in so quickly. Theyre not set up for that. And I didnt want to do it but our opponents wanted it, so we did it. And if they dont get their money fast, Im going to ask that we convene the federal government  that we come back to Congress and well do something where we take care of it, because we can take care of it very easily and quickly  and I said that.But a lot of these systems, theyre so old and so antiquated at the state level that theyre going to  they have the money, and theyre going to get the money very quickly, but theyre not going to be able to distribute it. So remember what I said, and we will, if we have to, call Congress back or find some other way of delivery of the money.Throughout this great national struggle, the American people have embodied the unrivaled patriotism and willpower that has led America to conquer every challenge  every single one in our nations history. More than 90 percent of Americans say theyre staying home as much as possible, putting their lives, their careers, their educations, and their dreams on hold out of devotion to their fellow citizens and to their country. Social distancing Thats the way you win.These shared sacrifices are pulling our nation together like never before. Family bonds are strengthening. Neighbors are looking after neighbors. Its incredible. Im seeing, youre seeing, everybody is seeing whats happening. Communities are rallying for the cause, and all divisions are fading away.The Americans of every background are uniting to help our nation in this hour of need. Its up to 151 countries. So when we say our nation  our nation and the world, when you think. Think of it 151 countries. Somebody said to me today that wasnt in this particular world  they didnt know that we had that many countries. A hundred and fiftyone countries. Thats something.And some are struggling at a level that nobody would have believed possible. If you look at Italy, if you look at  France is having big problems. Spain is having incredible problems. Something we did very well is, when we stopped the inflow from China at a very early level, that was a good thing to do, a great thing to do. We would have had thousands and thousands of more deaths. And we also stopped the inflow from Europe at a very early level. But those things were very important, especially the initial one, because we had never done anything like it, where we closed our borders to a country like that.The modeling put together by Dr. Birx and Dr. Fauci and our other top healthcare ex  I mean, we have  and these people are amazing  the healthcare experts who, in this country, are the best in the world. They demonstrate that the mitigation measures we are putting in place may significantly reduce the number of new infections and, ultimately, the number of fatalities.I want the American people to know that your selfless, inspiring, and valiant efforts are saving countless lives. Youre making the difference. The modeling estimates that the peak in death rate is likely to hit in two weeks. So, Ill say it again The peak, the highest point of death rates  remember this  is likely to hit in two weeks. Nothing would be worse than declaring victory before the victory is won. That would be the greatest loss of all.Therefore, the next two weeks, and during this period, its very important that everyone strongly follow the guidelines. Have to follow the guidelines that our great Vice President holds up a lot. Hes holding that up a lot. He believes in it so strongly. The better you do, the faster this whole nightmare will end.Therefore, we will be extending our guidelines to April 30th to slow the spread. On Tuesday, we will be finalizing these plans and providing a summary of our findings, supporting data, and strategy to the American people. So well be having lots of meetings in between, but well be having a very important statement made on Tuesday  probably Tuesday evening  on all of the findings, all of the data, and the reasons were doing things the way were doing them.We can expect that, by June 1st, we will be well on our way to recovery. We think, by June 1st, a lot of great things will be happening.I want every citizen in our country to take heart and confidence in the fact that we have the best medical minds in the world tackling this disease. We have the best science, the best researchers, and the best talent anywhere working night and day to protect your family and loved ones and to overcome this pandemic.With the grace of God, we are rising to the occasion. We are proving that no darkness can overshadow the eternal light of American courage. We will win. And when we do, we will rebound with astonishing force and speed. We will be stronger than ever, and we will have learned so much, where something like this can never hurt us to the extent it has  and the world  again.In our present crisis, the strength of our people is our single most important asset, and together we will defeat this invisible curse  this is invisible enemy  and rise to incredible new heights.So I just want to thank you all for being here. And well take some questions if youd like.Yeah, please. Kelly.