James S. Brady Press Briefing RoomMarch 27, 2020556 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Great to have you. And thank you all for being here. My administration is taking new action to ensure that America has the medical resources and equipment needed to fight the global pandemic. Its been a brutal pandemic for over 150 countries all over the world.Weve had great success over the last month. Weve  as you know, the millions and millions of pieces of equipment have been delivered successfully by us  purchased and delivered. And weve made it available to the states. And the governors have been very gracious for the most part, I would say. There are a couple that arent appreciative of the incredible job. They have to do a better job themselves thats part of the problem.But, generally speaking, I have to tell you the governors have been great. I just spoke to the governor of New Jersey, Governor Murphy, and hes very thankful. And Governor Cuomo has been very nice. Theyve  theyve really appreciated, I think, what the federal government has done. You look at the hospitals that are being built all over the country by the Army Corps of Engineers and FEMA its been really incredible. Nobody has seen  theyll build hospitals in two or three days  portable hospitals.This afternoon, I invoked the Defense Production Act to compel General Motors to accept, perform, and prioritize federal contracts for ventilators. Ventilators are a big deal and weve delivered thousands of them. And oftentimes, you dont need ventilators very much. Hospitals dont have very many. And now were  turning out that we have to produce large numbers. But weve been able to do that and were going to be doing a lot more.This invocation of the DPA should demonstrate clearly to all that we will not hesitate to use the full authority of the federal government to combat this crisis. We thought that we had to deal with, as an example, General Motors. And I guess they thought otherwise they didnt agree. And now they do. They do agree. And I think we might be able to pull it. But we let them know the way we felt, and they cant be doing that.Well work in partnership with the private sector, but where an emergency exists  and its very important that we get to the bottom line and quickly  we will do what we have to do and immediately exercise all available lawful authorities to get the job done.This afternoon, I also signed an executive order investing  and very, very strongly investing  the Department of Health and Human Services and the Department of Homeland Security with the full authorities available under the Defense Production Act to respond to the outbreak of the terrible virus  the invisible enemy, as we say.My order also establishes that Peter Navarro  a very trusted person from the White House, and hes been an incredible  hes done an incredible job for me in terms of negotiation, in terms of understanding where the world is going, economically. But my order establishes that Peter will serve as National Defense Production Act Policy Coordinator for the federal government. Thats a very important position  more important, probably, than its almost ever been in our country.And so I want to congratulate Peter and his family. Its  I know hes going to do a fantastic job. Hes been doing that job over the last few weeks. Peter has a PhD in economics from Harvard has a master in public administration from the Kennedy School, also from Harvard. And hes a tremendous guy and he will do a fantastic job.But Id like to maybe ask, before I continue, Peter to say a few words, please. Peter? Thank you very much.MR. NAVARRO Thank you, Mr. President. And, of course, you know the Harvard joke You can tell a Harvard man, you just cant tell him much. Right?THE PRESIDENT They cant tell them much.MR. NAVARRO So, anyway, on a serious note, let me just give you a little idea of the Defense Production Act and why it is so important. We are engaged in the most significant industrial mobilization since World War Two. We have a wartime President fighting an invisible enemy. And we have the full force of government, coupled with the full power of private enterprise, bearing down on this problem for the American people, sir.What we had to do today with President Trumps order, with respect to General Motors, I want to give you a little background on that. We need industrial mobilization to make adequate ventilators, particularly in the very short run, to help people of New York, Detroit, New Orleans, Chicago, Denver, Seattle, all around this country, as this virus bears down. And the ventilators really are the most important thing for patients who become most seriously ill. Theyre literally the lifeline for people.And Ive personally been working with FEMA, and Ive been working with HHS and over 10 ventilator companies, making sure we can get what we need as quickly as possible. And virtually every one of those companies has been cooperative, patriotic, moving in Trump time  which is to say as soon as possible, sir.But we did have a problem with GM and Ventec. On the one hand, we had Ford and GE moving forward on a similar kind of project, patriotically moving as fast as possible. Over the last several days, we ran into roadblocks with GM. We cannot afford to lose a single day, particularly over the next 30 to 60 days. So President Trump invoked the Defense Production Act as a way of enhancing and accelerating this mobilization. I salute him for doing so. Its going to make my job so much easier.For the most part, weve had tremendous cooperation from the private sector. Today, sir, was the right day to do it.Thank you, sir.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Thank you, Peter, and good luck.My administration is marshalling the full power of the American government, and we will do that, and thats what weve done, and we will continue to do it until our war is won. Economic, scientific, medical, military, and homeland security  all of this to vanquish the virus.We are working to sign contracts immediately with the major ventilator companies in the country, including GE, Philips, Medtronic, Hamilton, ZOLL, RedMedResMed, Hillrom, and Vyaire. These are all companies that do this  great companies.The FDA will be reducing and waiving unnecessary regulations in order to get this done. Were going to be getting rid of certain, lets say, barriers to speed. We want them to get it done quickly. Theyve been doing it for a long time. Theyve been making ventilators for a long time. Hopefully, General Motors will join in the fray.Under the normal condition that you would be  regular times  29,000 ventilators are distributed in the United States each year. In the next 100 days  well, first of all, weve already delivered thousands of them  but within the next 100 days, we will either make or get, in some form, over 100,000 additional units. And I guess, to put it in other words, in the next 100 days, well receive over three times the number of ventilators made during a regular year in the United States, and that doesnt include all of the thousands and thousands that weve  weve given to the various states, a lot of them.We delivered thousands, as you know, to New York and they didnt know they got them. And then we also had thousands put in a warehouse, and that was also for New York. And they just found out that they were there, so we have to make sure that when we deliver things, they get distributed.Earlier today, I spoke to the CEO of Boeing, Dave Calhoun. And Boeing will be producing and donating face shields to help our medical professionals on the frontlines. These are actually pretty intricate, in terms of the plastic and the quality of the materials. Theyre important. Theyve got to be top of the line and theyre going to do thousands of these a week. Theyve already tested the production and theyre ready to begin producing all of these shields. Thats the plastic shields that go over the face.Boeing is also offering us the use of their  what they call the Dreamlifter cargo plane. Its the largest plane in the world. And this is sort of a picture of it. They called up just a little while ago. And that can sort of take anything. Thats the biggest in the world. And theyre letting us use that for the distribution of product all over the country, especially the heavy product or large quantities of product.And Boeing will dedicate up to three planes to the mission of flying medical supplies anywhere we need it. Each plane can carry 63,000 pounds of cargo per flight. Thats a lot of cargo.I also signed an executive order giving the Department of Defense and the Department of Homeland Security the authority to activate the Ready Reserve components of the armed forces. This will allow us to mobilize medical disaster and emergency response personnel to help wage our battle against the virus by activating thousands of experienced service members, including retirees.We have a lot of people  retirees great, great military people  theyre coming back in  who have offered to support the nation in this extraordinary time of need. And they come back in. They dont say, How much? They dont say, What are we getting paid? They just want to come back in. Its really an incredible thing to see. Its beautiful.This afternoon, I also signed into law 2.2 trillion in urgently needed relief for our nations families, workers, businesses, and Americans of every race, color, religion, and creed. And the 2.2 trillion goes to 6.2 trillion, depending on need. So its the largest  its the largest bill ever signed  and not just emergency relief, but of any kind. Weve never signed a bill of that magnitude.And, you know, incredibly, it was 96 to nothing in the Senate and it was essentially the same thing in Congress. They did it very quickly in the House. They did it very, very quickly. So, if you look at Congress  what theyve been able to do  the House was a voice vote, I guess they would call it, and something like that rarely takes place. And 96 to nothing in the Senate for the largest bill in the history of our country. Thats pretty good.And I want to thank Republicans, I want to thank Democrats for coming together for the whole of the nation. And this is a great thing, a great victory. This is going to save companies that are incredible companies, but that are going to need some help because of what happened. A month ago, they were outstanding. They were having the best year they ever had and then we got hit. And so, well help them out. Its thousands and millions of jobs. Its millions of jobs. And I just want to thank everybody for working so hard, and that includes the people standing with me right here.The legislation extends a vital lifeline to American families and American workers with job retention loans for small businesses  and a big focus of the bill is small businesses. Theyre really the  theyre the energy. Theyre whatever you want to call it, in terms of our nation. They push. People have no idea how big a factor  Peter can tell you  the small businesses are in this country, from an economic standpoint, from a job standpoint.We expand the unemployment benefits for workers very substantially and directcash payments will be going to American citizens  substantial. This legislation also provides a massive increase in funding for hospitals for the Disaster Relief Fund and critical supplies, including masks, respirators, and pharmaceuticals of all types. And, speaking of pharmaceuticals, as you know, were working vaccines. Were getting some good response and were working on therapeutics and cures. And we have some very interesting things happening.This afternoon, Apple launched a new tool created in partnership with our task force, the CDC, and FEMA. Any individual who is concerned that they might have the virus can now download the free COVID19 app on their iPhone and answer a set of simple questions about their symptoms and risk factors. Its getting to be a very modernized system, indeed. Theyll soon receive HHS recommendations on what to do next, including whether they should get tested or not. And again, we only want people to get tested if they  if we think they need it.In a few moments, Secretary DeVos and Secretary Perdue will discuss new partnerships with the private sector that are providing meals to millions of students while schools are closed. Theyve both been incredible, the job theyve done. I appreciate them very much.Were grateful for the assistance of Niren Chaudhary, CEO of Panera Bread Company. Theyve been so incredible to us and to the people of our country. And Denton McLane, Chairman of McLane Global Logistics. And theyve joined us  theyre onstage with me. Theyre going to speak.Throughout this ordeal, I have been awed and inspired by the American people more than anything else, more than anyone else. Americans of every walk of life have followed the guidelines, shown incredible compassion, and sacrificed greatly on behalf of their fellow citizens. I want every American to know that their selfless and heroic actions are saving lives. And I want them to know, and Ive said it before, that Im very proud to be their President. Im very proud of the American people.My administration is actively planning the next phase in an allout war against this horrible virus. Were now testing nearly 100,000 patients per day  more than anybody in the world  and we have now, as of even a couple of weeks ago, tested more than any other country in the world and our capacity continues to grow.Widespread surveillance testing will allow us to monitor the spread of the virus  and were doing that quite accurately, and Deborah and Tony will be speaking about that and coordinate with states to contain new hotspots as they arise with a targeted, factbased and databra  based approach. Its all data driven.This surveillance testing will soon enable us to publish updated guidelines for state and local leaders. We want every county and region in the country to have the ontheground evidence that they need to determine the mitigation measures that are right for them. Each location is different. Some are very, very different. Some are day and night. Some are in great shape and some arent in great shape. And well be able to have very accurate information very shortly. We already have a lot of that information.America is bravely battling this pandemic through cuttingedge science, medical innovation, and rational, deliberate, and determined vigilance. No effort will be spared in winning this war. Were going to win the war. Hopefully, were going to win soon and with as few lives as possible lost. You see whats going on all over the world. You see the lives, you see Italy, you see Spain, you see all of these countries going through so much, going through such hell. And were all in very strong communication, I can tell you. Our professionals are dealing with them every day, many of the countries. So many countries, but many of the countries, were dealing very directly and closely.And were going to be in very good shape, in terms of certain equipment thats very hard to get, very hard to manufacture. And, at the right time, well be distributing that equipment throughout the world to other countries. Boris Johnson was asking for ventilators today. As you know, Boris is  he has tested  unfortunately, he has tested positive and thats a terrible thing. But hes going to be great. Im sure hes going to be totally great. But they want ventilators. Italy wants ventilators. Spain wants ventilators. Germany wants ventilators. Theyre all calling for ventilators. Well, were going to make a lot of ventilators. And well take care of our needs, but were also going to help other countries.So I just want to thank everybody. I want to thank our great American citizens. And a lot of incredible things are happening  really happening  and its too bad. I was saying, before we had the press conference, when we signed  we had a signing ceremony, where we signed the largest bill in our history. And I said, Think of it 22 days ago, we had the greatest economy in the world. Everything was going beautifully, the stock market hit an alltime high again for the over 150th time during my presidency, and the world was looking good. And then we got hit by the invisible enemy and now you have countries all over the world reeling. But were winning it, and well be bigger and better and stronger than we were even before.And we will also have apparatus in place that works. We wont have broken systems. Well have incredible systems so if this should happen again  and hopefully it wont, but if a thing like it should happen again, well be able to handle it very much more easily.So with that, Ill take a few questions. Steve, please?