James S. Brady Press Briefing Room526 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Hello, everybody. Hello. Thank you very much. Thank you. Beautiful day. Very good what youre doing. Look at all those empty seats. Never seen it like that. Oh, boy. Well, how the world has changed. How the world has changed, right? But its going to end up being better than ever.I want to thank you very much for being here. And Id like to update you on the steps were taking on our ongoing fight to defeat the virus.This morning at 755, I spoke to the leaders of the G20. Had a great meeting. And we have a lot of different ideas, a lot of good ideas. Were working together. The leaders gathered virtually around the world to discuss the whole subject of the problem that, right now, 151 nations have got. We had President Alberto Fernndez of Argentina Prime Minister Scott Morrison of Australia President Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada President Xi of China President Emmanuel Macron of France Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany Prime Minister Modi of India President Widodo of Indonesia Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte of Italy Prime Minister Shinz Abe of Japan. Congratulations to Japan on making a great decision on the Olympics. Going to make it next year, 2021. President Andrs Manuel Lpez Obrador of Mexico. I want to thank the President of Mexico for having done such a great job with respect to the military. We have 27,000 Mexican soldiers on our southern border, and very few people are getting through  I can tell you that. And we got to keep it that way. And we have a great relationship with Mexico now. President Putin of Russia King Salman of Saudi Arabia President Ramaphosa of South Africa President Moon of, as you know, a country that we spend a lot of time in South Korea. Were working very hard on that. Prime Minister Snchez of Spain President Erdoan of Turkey Prime Minister Boris Johnson of the United Kingdom President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen President of the European Council Charles Michel United Nations SecretaryGeneral Antnio Guterres World Health Organization Director Tedros Adhanom World Bank President David Malpass and International Monetary Fund Managing Director Kristalina GeorgievaSo, thats a big group but its a great group. Its  and they were all there  every one of them. And we talked about the problem. And hopefully it wont be a problem for too much longer.The United States is working with our friends and partners around the world to stop the spread of the virus and coordinate our efforts. We discussed how vitally important it is for all of our nations to immediately share information and data  and weve been doing that, to a large extent, but well do it even more so  and to inform our  I guess you could say inform each of us on the fight that weve got going one way or the other. Its a little bit different, but were handling it a little bit in different ways.But there is great uniformity, I think. We had a  it was a terrific meeting. Tremendous spirit among all of those countries. You had 20 countries plus the other people that I mentioned. And tremendous spirit to get this over with.After the meeting with the world leaders, I spoke with the governors of our 50 states and territories. Our team has been in constant communication with the governors, and we had a terrific meeting.Somebody in the fake news said that one of the governors said, Oh, we need Tom Brady. I said, Yeah. He meant that in a positive way. He said, We need Tom Brady. Were going to do great. And he meant it very positively, but they took it differently. They think Tom Brady should be leading the effort. Thats only fake news. And I like Tom Brady. Spoke to him the other day. Hes a great guy.But I wish the news could be  could be real. I wish it could be honest. I wish it werent corrupt, but so much of it is. Its so sad to see. Just so sad to see.We had a great meeting. I tell you what Im sure you have tapes of the meeting. Im sure that you were able to get tapes very easily. So you had 50 governorsplus. And if you had tapes, youd see it was really  I mean, there was no contention. I would say virtually none. I would say maybe one person that was a little tiny bit of a raising of a voice, a little wise guy, a little bit. But hes usually a big wise guy. Not so much anymore. We saw to it that he wouldnt be so much anymore. But he is  we had a  I mean, I would rate  Mike was there a lot of the folks in the back were there. And it was a  it was a great meeting. It took place at about 12 oclock.So we went from the G20 to the governors. We also spoke about the economic relief with the governors and the package that were moving through Congress to deliver muchneeded financial assistance to hardworking families and small businesses.I want to thank Democrats and Republicans in the Senate for unanimously passing the largest financial relief package in American history, 96 to 0. And I have to say its the largest, by far, and Im profoundly grateful that both parties came together to provide relief for American workers and families in this hour of need.The House of Representatives must now pass this bill, hopefully without delay. I think its got tremendous support. When youre at 96 to nothing  and, as you know, a couple of those people are quarantined, and one  Rand Paul  is  hes actually got it. But hell  hell be better. Hes been a great guy. Hes been a great friend of mine, actually.The massive 2.2 trillion relief package includes Job retention loans for small businesses with loan forgiveness available for businesses that keep their workers on the payroll. Thats pretty good. Loan forgiveness  keep the workers on the payroll. Thats pretty good. Direct cash payments will be available to American citizens earning less than 99,000 per year 3,400 for the typical family of four. Expanded unemployment benefits. The average worker who has lost his or her job will receive 100 percent of their salary for up to four full months.These are things that  by the way, we have plenty more to go and  but theyre things that nobody has ever had any package like this done. And I just want to thank them. Hopefully, itll get approved equally easily in the House, really. I think it will go through pretty well. From what I hear, virtually everybody. Critical support for the hardesthit industries with a ban on corporate stock buybacks and tough new safeguards to prevent executive compensation abuse. Over 100 billion for our amazing doctors, nurses, and hospitals. 45 billion for the Disaster Relief Fund, more than doubling the amount available. This is tremendous stuff. 27 billion for the coronavirus response, including 16 billion to build up the Strategic National Stockpile with critical supplies including masks, respirators, and all sorts of pharmaceuticals. 3.5 billion to expand assistance to childcare providers and childcare benefits to healthcare workers, first responders, and others on the frontlines of the crisis. And these are really brave, incredible people, I have to say. And some of them are getting sick, and some of them are getting very sick, and some of them dont even recover. Theyre incredible people. 1 billion for Defense Production Act procurement. We are, as you know, using the Act, but we use it only when necessary.   We use it as leverage. We generally dont have to use it to accomplish what we want to accomplish.As of today, FEMA has shipped over 9 million N95 masks, 20 million face masks, 3.1 million face shields, nearly 6,000 ventilators, 2.6 million gowns, 14.6 million gloves. And were sending more every day, and weve got tremendous amounts of equipment coming in.A lot of great companies are making equipment right now. The ventilators, obviously they take a little longer to make, but we have a lot of companies making them. And were going to be in great shape.We took over an empty shelf. We took over a very depleted place, in a lot of ways. As you know, the testing is going very, very well. And that was obsolete and broken, and we fixed it and its been going really good.And I think, very importantly, the stockpile  were really filling it up, and we fill it up rapidly, but we get it out. Sometimes we have it sent directly to the states instead.And again, the state has to be doing this kind of a thing also. Were sort of a  we look  we look from behind a little bit and we look at how are they doing, and if they need help, we do it. But its their first responsibility. Sometimes they just cant get it, but we load it up and we send it out. But if we can, we have it sent directly to the state. We want it to go directly to the point where we want it.I can now announce something that I think is incredible, what theyve done in the Navy, because the incredible naval hospital ship the USNS Comfort  which is incredible, actually, when you see it inside  will be underway to New York City on Saturday.So its going to be leaving on Saturday, rather than three weeks from now. They did the maintenance quickly, and it was going to be there for quite a while longer  another three or four weeks. And it should be arriving  I told the governor 20 minutes ago, Governor Cuomo, that the ship will be arriving in New York Harbor on Monday.I think Im going to go out and Ill kiss it goodbye. Ill go  Ill go to  its in Virginia, as you know. And I will go and well be waving together because I suspect the media will be following. John, are you going to be following? Maybe. You never know.