James S. Brady Press Briefing Room554 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. So, nice to be with you. America continues to gain ground in the war against the virus.I want to thank the American people for answering the call, following our guidelines, and making the sacrifices required to overcome this terrible threat. More aggressively we commit to social distancing  so important. Social distancing  such an important phrase. And we do it right now. The more lives we can save and the sooner we can eventually get people back to work, back to school, and back to normal.And there are large sections of our country  probably can go back much sooner than other sections. And were obviously looking at that also. People are asking, Is that an alternative? And I say, Absolutely, it is an alternative.I have now approved major disaster declarations for New York, California, Washington, Iowa, Louisiana, Texas, and Florida. That has great significance, as you know, and legal significance.Were in a constant grouping, and I can say this We have a large grouping of people that does nothing but communicate with the various officials, including weve been spending a lot of time with New York officials because that really is, by far, the hottest spot. Theyve got a number of very tough weeks ahead of them.The governor is doing a very good job. I spoke to the governor  Governor Cuomo  last night and this morning, and he mentioned that, in his remarks, that hes using the  that we are using  and I think he feels, because he understands negotiation  he thinks were using very appropriately the Defense Production Act. And we are. Were using it where needed. Its a great point of leverage its a great negotiating tool.But Ive really  I will tell you, theres tremendous spirit from people and tremendous spirit with respect to these companies. And I dont have to use it very much at all. They want to do it. As you know, General Motors is involved Ford is involved 3M is involved others are involved. And theyre all working very hard to produce product  different  all different products.We had very little product when we came. We built it up, and weve  we give it away as fast as we can to the different states. Were also, as you know, building numerous hospitals and medical centers throughout certain areas in New York. Its at the convention center, the Javits Convention Center. Were doing four hospitals and were doing, throughout the state, four medical centers. Theyre somewhat different.I want you to know that Im doing everything in my power to help the city pull through this challenge. Im working very hard on New York. Its really, by far, our biggest problem. Maybe it will be maybe it wont be. But theres a lot of good, capable people working on it with us, and our teams are working very well with the state representatives.Were also doing some very large testings throughout the country. I told you yesterday that, in South Korea  and this is not a knock in any way because I just spoke with President Moon we had a very good conversation about numerous other things  but theyve done a very good job on testing, but we now are doing more testing that anybody, by far. We do more in eight days than they do in eight weeks. And we go up, on a daily basis, exponentially. So, its really good.By the way, while Im on it, I also spoke with Prime Minister Abe of Japan last night, and I congratulated him on a wise choice. I think its going to be a fantastic Olympics  2021. I think its going to be a fantastic Olympics. It was the absolute right decision to delay it for a full year and now have a full, beautiful Olympics. Its going to be very important because its probably the first time, maybe ever, or certainly in a long time, that it was on a odd year. It always on an even year, they tell me. But hes going to have a fantastic success, and now theyll have even more time. He didnt need any more time. Everything was perfectly ready. What a job theyve done.But Japan  I want to congratulate Japan, the IOC, and Prime Minister Abe on a great decision. I think its going to be a fantastic Olympics. I told him Ill be there. Ill be there.As we fight to protect American lives, were also protecting American livelihoods. Democrats and Republicans in the Senate are very close to passing an emergency relief bill for American workers, families, and businesses. This legislation, in addition to the two bills I signed this month that includes, as you know, sick leave, and we have all sorts of things in for the workers, for families.But we have a tremendous paid sick leave provision for workers at no cost at all to the employers. And thats a big thing no cost to the employers. We want to get everybody back, working.Together, this 2.2 trillion legislative package is bigger than anything, I believe, ever passed in Congress. Perhaps, relatively speaking, if you go back  look during the FDR New Deal days  there was something that if you timevalue it, you could say it was bigger. I dont know. But this is certainly, in terms of dollars, by far and away the biggest ever, ever done. And thats a tremendous thing because a lot of this money goes to jobs, jobs, jobs, and families, families, families.The Senate bill, as you know, includes350 billion in job retention loans for small businesseswith loan forgiveness available for businesses that continue paying their workers. They continue paying their workers. Thats what we want We want them to keep their workers and pay their workers. This will help businesses keep workers in the payroll and allow our economy to quickly accelerate as soon as we defeat the virus.350 billion in direct cash payments willbe available for every American citizen earning less than 99,000 per year. That would be 3,400, very quickly, for the typical family of four. Nothing like that has ever been done in our country.Up to 250 billion in expanded unemployment benefits. Theaverage worker who has lost his or her job will receive 100 percent of their salary for up to four full months. Unlike normal unemployment benefits, independent contractors and the selfemployed will be eligible. So you have independent contractors and selfemployed people will be eligible for this.Over 100 billion to support the heroic work of ourdoctors, nurses, and hospitals. Theyve been incredible.45 billion for Disaster Relief Fund. So weare setting up a fund of 45 billion for disaster relief. Thats more than doubling the amount available to support my national emergency and disaster declarations. Its a doubling up.27 billion to build up the Strategic National Stockpilewith critical supplies, including masks, respirators, pharmaceuticals, and everything you can imagine  because it was very depleted, like our military was depleted. Now we have a brandnew military. Never had a military like this. We have equipment either coming or its already come. For the most part, its already come. But we have a lot of things that will soon be coming  planes, missiles, rockets, lots of things. But the stockpile was very depleted, like everything else.This will also include significant funding for thedevelopment of vaccines on top of the 8 billion we approved several weeks ago.Over 500 billion in support for the hardesthitindustries, with a ban on corporate stock buybacks, which is something I insisted on, and frankly, I tell you, the Republicans wanted that and the Democrats wanted that. We want them to use the money for the companies and the planes, or whatever they may be helping to get over this rough patch. And I dont think its going to end up being such a rough patch. I think its going to, when we open  especially, if we can open it  the sooner, the better  its going to open up like a rocket ship. I think its going to go very good and very quickly.And youre going to have some tough new limits on executive compensation also. They need the money. Theyre going to have to, sort of, just make things work, because were interested in the workers, the jobs. And were interested in the companies because thats really what fuels the workers in those great jobs.And we also have 16 billion in funding for the purchase ofpersonal protective equipment  you know about that  such as masks and respirators through the Strategic National Stockpile.I encourage the House to pass this vital legislation and send the bill to my desk for signature. Without delay, I will sign it immediately. We will have a signing, and itll be a great signing and a great day for the American worker and for American families and, frankly, for American companies, some of which were having the best years theyve ever had these last few years. And then, a little bit less than a month ago, they went into a position that they havent seen because of the hidden enemy, the virus.Earlier today, I spoke to leaders of many of Americas amazing nonprofit organizations. I thanked them for their unwaving sic and unwavering devotion to American people, to American families, to our nation. And they have been fantastic. Theyve been collecting supplies, distributing food, supporting healthcare workers, caring for vulnerable workers and families. I encourage them to continue to do it. But Ill tell you, the nonprofits have been fantastic theyve been great. Theyre great people, actually. I know a lot of them.Finally, I want to provide a brief update on the critical supplies. Through FEMA, the federal government has delivered, or is in the process of shipping 9.4 million N95 respirators  think of that 9.4 million  20 million surgical masks, and we have others that we think are going to be delivered pretty quickly. The whole world  you know, its not just us its not just the States. The whole world is trying to get these things  in competition with many, many countries.I believe today you broke the 150 mark for the virus. We have 150 countries  over 150 countries where you have this virus. And nobody would ever believe a thing like thats possible. Nobody could have ever seen something like this coming, but now we know, and we know it can happen and happen again. And if it does, somebody is going to be very well prepared because of what weve learned and how weve done. Its been incredible, how weve done.Remember this More tests than anybody, by far. And the news, the reporters, the media always likes to bring South Korea  they called me and they told me, Its amazing. Your testing procedures are amazing. Plus, we have a test thats a very highlevel test, and its a test thats very accurate.3.1 million face shields, 2.6 million surgical gowns, 14.6 million gloves, and almost 6,000 ventilators, which go to the areas of greatest needs. We sent, over the last day, 4,000 ventilators to New York. And I spoke with the governor about that he was happy. I spoke with the mayor also about that. Mayor de Blasio, he was very happy. Its hard not to be happy with the job were doing  that, I can tell you.Throughout this national emergency, everyday heroes continue to step forward and demonstrate the extraordinary character of our nation, including the people behind me. By the way, these people are amazing. They are amazing people and they become  I dont know, maybe I should just speak for myself, but to me, theyve become friends. Maybe they dont like me. Maybe they dont maybe they do. I dont know. All I can tell you is theyre talented people. They work very hard.In Maryland, a 7yearold boy used his own birthday money to buy meals for dozens of senior citizens. In Nevada, a college student recruited 90 of her friends to help deliver groceries and supplies to the most vulnerable. This is happening all over the country. Thousands and thousands of instances. I could stand up here all day and tell you about other things. In Minnesota, hundreds of medical students have volunteered to provide childcare for hospital workers, helping to keep our doctors and nurses on the frontlines, fighting to save lives.These inspiring Americans remind us that we all have a role to play in winning this great national battle. And its really a worldwide battle. Were dealing with other nations all the time. The people here are  and I am a little bit  I take calls from a lot of people theyre in trouble. A lot of countries are in big trouble.So now we will hear from our great Secretary of the Treasury. He has been working rather hard, I will tell you. Steve Mnuchin is a  hes a fantastic guy and he loves our country, and hes been dealing with both sides  Republican and Democrat. He, sort of, lived over in that beautiful building. Its a very beautiful building. To me, one of the most beautiful buildings, actually, in the world. And hes gotten to know it, Steve, very well.So if we could have a little update, Steve, it would be fantastic, as to how were doing and what its looking like.Thank you.SECRETARY MNUCHIN Thank you very much, Mr.President. And first, let me say, I would like to thank Mitch McConnell for his leadership. And Id also like to thank Chuck Schumer for the enormous bipartisan support we had on this bill, and the many senators, both Republicans and Democrats, that work tirelessly over the last five days on all the task force.As the President said, I got to live in the LBJ room for the last five days, and we couldnt be more pleased with the unprecedented response from the Senate to protect American workers and American business in this situation.The President has outlined many of these, but let me just quickly go through them.Again, small business retention loansThis will cover roughly 50 percent of the private payroll in small businesses where we will immediately make loans that will supply eight weeks of salaries, as long as they keep workers employed and overhead. And those loans will be forgiven at the end of the period, as long as they keep workers employed.These are SBA loans, but the Treasury will be issuing new regulations authorizing almost every single FDICinsured bank to make these. I expect, by the end of next week, we will have a very simple process where these can be made and dispersed in the same day. So this will be a very simple system to get money into smallbusiness hands.For companies that dont qualify that, we have an economic program of tax incentives to retain workers. And as the President said, we have enhanced unemployment insurance for people that dont fit into these two programs that will be administered through the states.We also have economic impact payments. These will be, within the next three weeks, direct payments into most peoples deposit accounts. And for those that dont have it, we will be having the checks in the mail.Treasury will have additional authorities. We have 500 billion that we can use to work with the Federal Reserve for emergency programs that will create up to an additional 4 trillion, if needed, to support American business and American workers in an unprecedented way.And then, finally, the President mentioned 100 billion to hospitals and 150 billion to states that have specific coronavirus expenses, as well as many additional things.Mr. President, I especially want to thank you and the Vice President. You are constantly available to us. We spoke constantly throughout the day. You gave us guidance and quick decisions on many issues.And again, I thank everybody for this great bipartisan work. This is going to be enormous help for the American workers in the American economy. The President was very determined that Congress would move swiftly to protect hardworking Americans in business in this unprecedented situation.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much, Steve. Great job.Day and night, right?SECRETARY MNUCHIN Day and night.THE PRESIDENT Day and night. We was  that was  that was a lot of work. And well see how it all goes. We still need a vote, Steve, dont we? Huh?Do you have a question? Yes.