James S. Brady Press Briefing Room543 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Been a very busy day. I want to thank the American people for the incredible sacrifices that theyre making on behalf of our nation. And I want to encourage everyone to keep following our guidelines on social distancing avoiding large gatherings and hand washing, and all of the other things that everybody knows theyre supposed to be doing.Ultimately, the goal is to ease the guidelines and open things up to very large sections of our country as we near the end of our historic battle with the invisible enemy. Been going for a while, but well win. Well win.I said earlier today that I hope we can do this by Easter. I think that would be a great thing for our country, and were all working very hard to make that a reality. Well be meeting with a lot of people to see if it can be done. Easter is a very special day for many reasons. For me, for a lot of  a lot of our friends, thats a very special day. And what a great timeline this would be. Easter, as our timeline  what a great timeline that would be.My first priority is always the health and safety of the American people, and we want everyone to understand that we are continuing to evaluate the data. Were working with the task force and making decisions based on what is best for the interests of our fantastic country.In order to defeat the virus, we must continue to be very strong. Your resilience and spirit has been inspiring to everyone. Right now, this virus is attacking 149 countries, but everybody looks to us and theyre watching us.And Im very proud to be your President  I can tell you that. Theres tremendous hope as we look forward and we begin to see the light at the end of the tunnel. Stay focused and stay strong. And my administration and myself will deliver for you as we have in the past.Let me provide you an update on critical preparations and supplies in our war on the virus. Through FEMA, the federal government is distributing more than 8 million N95 respirators, 14 million surgical masks, and many, many millions more are under order, and theyll be arriving soon. 2.4 million face shields, 1.9 million surgical gowns, 13.5 million gloves, and more than 4,000 ventilators to the areas of greatest need have already been sent. And we have 4,000 being delivered to New York.The federal government is using every resource at its disposal to acquire and distribute critical medical supplies. The core element of this strategy is my executive order authorizing the use of the Defense Production Act, which has, as you know, already been activated, actually, a long time ago  quite a long time ago.Private companies are heeding our call to produce medical equipment and supplies because they know that we will not hesitate to invoke the DPA in order to get them to do what they have to do. Its called leverage. You dont have to use it from the standpoint of  actually, its been activated, but you dont have to use it. But the threat of it being there is great leverage. And companies are doing as we ask, and companies are actually  even better than that, theyre coming through and theyre calling us. And its been, really, something to see.This morning, Ford, 3M, and General Electric Healthcare are making tremendous numbers  theyve already started  of respirators ventilators and face shields. Theyre working together. We didnt have to exercise or utilize the DPA in any way. The fact that we have it helps, but we didnt have to. And for the most part, we wont have to.Were receiving full cooperation from companies with the understanding that the federal government stands ready to compel cooperation if need be. We havent found that to be the case.Its been really amazing to see these big, strong, powerful  in some cases, very small companies, familyowned companies, step up and make a lot of great product for what were going through and what we will continue to be going through for a while.The Army Corps of Engineers and the National Guard are building four hospital facilities in New York City at the Javits Center, which will be operational very soon. Theyve already started.In addition, theyre building four separate medical facilities in different parts of the state. Were dealing with Governor Cuomo on that. So youre going to have four hospitals and four medical facilities at the highest level, too. Really incredible facilities. Temporary but incredible.Were also deploying the U.S. Navy hospital ship, and that will be arriving in New York Harbor in the nottoodistant future. Its finishing its maintenance. Theyre doing a very big maintenance, and what we did is we condensed it very seriously. And, as you know, the other hospital ship  and these are incredible ships  its already on its way to Los Angeles.So were in frequent contact with state and local officials, and getting a lot of work done. Were, likewise, building hospitals in Los Angeles. Were working also  the State of Washington. Were working with the governor of the State of New Jersey. Were building a medical facility, a hospital facility, and doing a lot of work.I want to thank the people from FEMA  the great people from FEMA  and also the Army Corps of Engineers.Secretary Mnuchin and the members of my administration continue to work closely with Congress. Im pleased to report that we are working to pass the biggest and boldest financial relief package in American history. Senators will soon, hopefully, vote on a 2 trillion bill that will deliver direct cash payments to struggling Americans. No fault of their own. This came out of nowhere. Nobody can imagine this even happened. But its not their fault.We want to protect, and we will, all of the things that a person needs protected and a family needs protected. Were working on job retention, loans for small businesses, and extended unemployment insurance for laidoff workers.The legislation will also include billions of dollars for additional resources for our, really, heroic  these are incredible doctors, nurses  brave  and hospitals, as well as support for hardhit industries such as the airline industry and the cruise ship industry, which employ tremendous amounts of people and obviously serve very important functions beyond that.With very tough protections for the American taxpayer, the loans will be very secure and they will be very profitable and, at the same time, theyll bridge  they call them bridge loans. In many cases, theyll be bridging these companies back into very good health. Some of them are very important companies that four weeks ago didnt have a problem.Im also confident that the Democrats will do the right thing. I feel very confident. Theyre working very hard together right now  Republicans and Democrats  and theyre getting very close to a very fair deal and a great deal for the people of our country.Today, as you probably saw, the Dow surged over 2,100 points. Thats the alltime record in history of the Exchange. This is very encouraging. And I think part of the reason is they are looking at what is close to being passed, and I think a very big part of it is they see that we want to get our country opened as soon as possible. They see were working very hard on that. Thats a very big factor, I think, in todays historic gain.The legislation developed in the Senate is the first step to restoring confidence and stability to Americas economy as we look ahead to the time when we can carefully and responsibly reopen our country for business, and we hope thats going to be very soon.I want to assure Americans that we have a team of public health experts. Youve gotten to know them as well as I know them theyre great people. Incredible. Talented. They love our country. Also, economists and other professionals working to develop a sophisticated plan to reopen the economy as soon as the time is right  one based on the best science, the best modeling, and the best medical research there is anywhere on Earth.Our great people have been  especially when it comes to our public health experts and officials  have been helping other countries, dealing with other countries, constant touch with other countries, helping them out, because many of them have never seen anything like whats happening.But our decision will be based on hard facts and data as to the opening. Im also hopeful to have Americans working again by that Easter  that beautiful Easter day. But rest assured, every decision we make is grounded solely on the health, safety, and wellbeing of our citizens.This is a medical crisis this isnt a financial crisis. But its a thing that nobody has seen for many, many decades. Nothing like this. Marshaling our economic strength is a key feature of defeating the virus, producing the material supplies and equipment that we need. And theyre doing a really fantastic job.Were helping the governors. We had a conference call the other day with governors, and we allowed the press to join us in the call. And the spirit between us and the governors has been really great.We should never be reliant on a foreign country for the means of our own survival. I think weve learned a lot. Weve learned a lot. This crisis has underscored just how critical it is to have strong borders and a robust manufacturing sector.For three years, weve embarked on a great national project to secure our immigration system and bring back our manufacturing jobs. We brought back many jobs  records numbers  record numbers of jobs.And this really shows  this experience shows how important borders are. Without borders, you dont have a nation.Our goal for the future must be to have American medicine for American patients, American supplies for American hospitals, and American equipment for our great American heroes.Now, both parties must unite to ensure the United States is truly an independent nation in every sense of the word. Energy independence  weve established that. Thats something incredible that we have established. Were energy independent, manufacturing independence, economic independence, and territorial independence enforced by strong, sovereign borders.America will never be a supplicant nation. We will be a proud, prosperous, independent, and selfreliant nation. We will embrace commerce with all, but we will be dependent on none.Above all, we know that the best thing for our economy and the world right now is a very, very powerful victory over the virus. Every day, the American people and showing the unity and resolve that has always defined the character of our nation.In New York, citizens are using 3D printers to make hundreds of the face shields. Theyre making them by the hundreds. In Texas, businesses and churches are uniting to collect gloves and thermometers for hospitals.In the selfless actions of our amazing citizens, were seeing enduring strength of our magnificent nation, a spirit that can never be broken, and a victorious future that can never be denied. It never will be denied.Now, what Id like to do is, perhaps, ask a person who has really established herself as maybe the worlds great expert on what she does  if I could ask Deborah to come forward and say a few words. And then Ill ask Tony to come up and speak, and then our Vice President. And then well take a few questions, and well do it quickly. And well probably see you again tomorrow.So, Deborah, please.DR. BIRX Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. I think those of you who heard at the town hall, we are continuing to accelerate testing at a record rate. We now have 370,000 tests that have been done. The majority of those  over 220,000 in the last eight days, which, those of you who have been tracking the South Korea numbers, put us equivalent to what they did in eight weeks that we did in eight days.This was made possible because of the HHS team working together, bringing together the strength of the FDA with the CDC, and the leadership of Secretary Azar. Were very proud of those numbers, but we know that we have to do more, and we continue to accelerate in testing to ensure that those who need the tests are tested first and have access.As we talked about yesterday, were working on the ability for people to take their own sample. That does not mean home testing. That means taking your own sample in the front of your nose with available swabs into normal saline that can be transported to the laboratories. That will allow and free up all of the drivethroughs to be very sparing on PPE, because youll be able to do that with gloves rather than the full PPE outfits. This will allow for more of that PPE to be dedicated to our hospitals.I think those of you who are tracking this epidemic closely, like I am, you will begin to see that there is encouraging results coming out of Italy. We are impressed by the decreases that are seen in mortality, the number of people succumbing to this illness, and the number of new cases.Our new cases will continue to surge because were still working on our backlog, although we will be in touch with the laboratories after this press conference to really find out how many are still in backlog and how many were run in the last 24 hours. Until we get into a 24hour cycle, were going to have a disproportional number of new cases compared to the actual new cases, and we will let you know when we have reached that equilibrium.Finally, and I know Dr. Fauci will talk about this further, we remain deeply concerned about New York City and the New York metro area. About 56 percent of all the cases in the United States are coming out of that metro area, and 60 percent of all the new cases are coming out of the metro New York area, and 31 percent of the people succumbing to this disease.It means, because they still are at the 31 percent mortality compared to the other regions of the country, that we can have a huge impact if we unite together. This means, as in all places, they have to be following the presidential guidelines that were put out eight or nine days ago. And this will be critical.But to everyone who has left New York over the last few days Because of the rate of the number of cases, you may have been exposed before you left New York. And I think, like Governor DeSantis has put out today, everybody who was in New York should be selfquarantining for the next 14 days to ensure that the virus doesnt spread to others, no matter where they have gone, whether its Florida, North Carolina, or out to far, far reaches of Long Island.We are starting to see new cases across Long Island that suggest people have left the city. So this will be very critical that those individuals do selfquarantine in their homes over these next 14 days to make sure they dont pass the virus to others, based on the time that they left New York.So if they already are 4 days out, then its just 10 more days. So I thank you if you help get that message out to others.Dr. Fauci?DR. FAUCI Thank you very much, Mr. President and Deb. I want to just talk very briefly about two or three things.First, the issue of testing and how that has really changed the complexion of the approach that were going to be able to take. We right  know testing was an issue. We had many questions of testing in this room for a number of times. Now that we literally have hundreds and hundreds of thousands of testing out there, there are a few things that we can do with that.One of the things is that when we make policy about what were going to be doing with the rest of the country, particularly those areas that are not hotspots, we need to know what the penetrance of infection is there. So we need to put a light on those dark spots that we dont know. We have to act, policy wise, on data. And were going to be getting more data  a lot more data.The other thing is that the areas of the country that are not hotspots, that are not going through the terrible ordeal that New York and California and Washington State are going through, they still have a window of significant degree of being able to contain. In other words, when you test, you find somebody, you isolate them, you get them out of circulation, and you do the contact tracing.When you have a big outbreak, its tough to do anything but mitigation. We have an opportunity now that we have the availability of testing to do that. So youre going to be hearing more about how we can inform where were going, particularly because we have the ability to test.The second thing is, I just want to reiterate what Dr. Birx said about New York. Its a very serious situation. Theyve suffered terribly through no fault of their own. But what were seeing now is that, understandably, people want to get out of New York. Theyre going to Florida. Theyre going to Long Island. Theyre going to different places.The idea, if you look at the statistics, its disturbing. About one per thousand of these individuals are infected. Thats about 8 to 10 times more than in other areas, which means when they go to another place, for their own safety, theyve got to be careful, monitor themselves. If they get sick, bring it to the attention of a physician. Get tested.Also, the idea about selfisolating for two weeks will be very important, because we dont want that to be another seeding point to the rest of the country, wherever they go.And then thirdly, just one  one just comment about drugs and the testing of drugs. You know, you heard yesterday about drugs being out there that physicians, on an offlabel way, can prescribe it to give people hope of something that hasnt been definitively proven to work, but that might have some hope.I dont want anybody to forget that simultaneously with our doing that, were also doing randomized clinical trials on a number of candidates. Youve heard about candidates, but there are others in the pipeline, where well be able to design the study and, over a period of time, particularly since we have so many infections, well be able to determine definitively are these safe and are they effective. Were talking about remdesivir, other drugs, immune sera, convalescent serum, monoclonal antibodies. All of these are in the pipeline now, queuing up to be able to go into clinical trial.So Ill stop there and inaudible.THE PRESIDENT Well, thank you, Tony. Great job.Larry, how about just a quick few minutes on how were doing over at the Hill, please?MR. KUDLOW Thank you, sir. Were mak  were gaining great progress on this phase three legislation. Negotiations continue. Weve had continued reports. Ive been up there with Secretary Mnuchin. Secretary Mnuchin continues today with the Chief of Staff, Mark Meadows, checking in with the President. Theyre getting closer and closer. They expect a vote as soon as possible.I just want to walk through a couple of key points. This legislation is urgently needed to bolster the economy provide cash injections and liquidity and stabilize financial markets to get us through a difficult period  a difficult and challenging period in the economy facing us right now, but also to position us for what I think can be an economic rebound later this year.We started the year very strong. And then we got hit by the coronavirus in ways that probably nobody imagined possible. Were dealing with that as best we can.This package will be the singlelargest Main Street assistance program in the history of the United States. The singlelargest Main Street assistance program in the history of the United States.Phase two delivered the sick leave for individuals  hourly workers, families, and so forth.Phase three, a significant package for small businesses. Loan guarantees will be included. Were going to take out expenses and lost revenues. As the President said, eligibility requires worker retention. We will maintain the people eligible. Well maintain their payrolls during this crisis period. And, on top of that, we will have direct deposit checks of roughly 3,000 for a family of four and that will bridge to enhanced, plussedup unemployment insurance benefits that will essentially take those up to full wages. This is one, two, three, four.You know, a strong workforce requires strong business. You cant have a job without a business to work for. And the hope here is that  the companies that were operating very well at beginning of the year when the economy was in good shape, we will help them and their employees get through this tough period so they will come out the other side  lets say this  later this spring or summer  and will continue their operations. Thats the key point.Now, dont forget theres income tax deferrals for individuals and corporations without interest and penalties. There is student loan interest and principle deferrals without any penalties.And finally, I want to mention, the Treasurys Exchange Stabilization Refund. That will be replenished. Its important, because that fund opens the door for Federal Reserve firepower to deal a broadbased way throughout the economy for distressed industries, for small businesses, for financial turbulence.Youve already seen the Fed take action. They intend to take more action. And in order to get this, we have to replenish the Treasurys Emergency Fund. Its very, very important not everybody understands that. That fund, by the way, will be overseen by an oversight board and an inspector general. It will be completely transparent.So, the total package here comes to roughly 6 trillion 2 trillion direct assistance, roughly 4 trillion in Federal Reserve lending power. Again, itll be the largest Main Street financial package in the history the United States. Liquidity and cash for families, small business, individuals, unemployed, to keep this thing going.Were headed for a rough period, but its only going to be weeks, we think. Weeks and months. Its not going to be years, thats for sure. And hopefully pave the way for continued economic recovery after this crisis departs.Thank you, sir.THE PRESIDENT Thank you, Larry. Ive been hearing that voice for so many years  like 30 years or more, maybe. And its a great voice and its a great man. So Larry Kudlow, thank you very much.MR. KUDLOW Thank you, sir.THE PRESIDENT I want to say that that package  and we went over parts of it, but pretty big parts  it really sets us up to, I think, even supersede where we were a month ago. I think we can get up there quickly and I think it allows us to supersede. It allows us to help these great companies that need help, like Boeing, which is  you know, it had a problem and then, on top of that problem, it had the virus come in. But well be helping Boeing. Well be helping the airlines. Well be helping the cruise lines. Well be doing a lot of things and the money will all come back to us, and it will come back to us in a very strong form.And before we take some questions, Id like to ask our great Vice President to say a few words, if you wouldnt mind. Please.THE VICE PRESIDENT Thank you, Mr. President. The White House Coronavirus Task Force met again today. And on behalf of the President of the United States, everyone on our team, and our state leaders, let me just say Thank you, America. People across this country, businesses large and small are responding to the threat of the coronavirus in ways that are deeply inspiring.Now, people are acting on the Presidents 15 Days to Slow the Spread and it is making a material difference. Our experts standing beside us told us that if every American  regardless of whether youre in an area thats impacted by an outbreak of the coronavirus or not, if every American would embrace these guidelines, that we could significantly reduce the number of Americans that would contract the coronavirus and protect the most vulnerable. And as the President reflected earlier, tens of millions of Americans are doing just that and were grateful.The focus of our task force, of course, is to slow the spread, to promote mitigation strategies. Beyond that, though, the President has us focused on testing and on supplies, and making sure that those that are enduring the symptoms of the coronavirus and those who are ministering to them  our extraordinary healthcare workers  have the support that they need.In the category of supplies, you just heard Dr. Birx indicate that weve made great progress. We have done more tests in the last eight days than were done in the previous eight weeks. And its because of the publicprivate partnership that the President forged with commercial labs.And I would encourage people around the country to remind your family members and friends If you dont have symptoms, dont get a test. We want to make sure that people who are having symptoms, who have a concern have the ability to be tested and to have those tests processed.Were continuing to urge all county hospitals, all labs around the country to report to the CDC all the results of the test, as itll give these experts around us the ability to continue to advise the President on best practices.As I mentioned, we  we all continue to follow the outbreak around the country and the test results. But as several have mentioned, were particularly focused on New York. The reality is the New York metro area was 60 percent of the new cases in the country.And specifically, as a lay person, I can tell you that the infection rates are roughly 1 in 1,000 in the New York City metropolitan area, where they are 0.2 percent per 1,000 or 0.1 percent for 1,000 in places like Washington State.It is the reason why today the White House Coronavirus Task Force is calling on any American  first and foremost, if youre in the New York City metropolitan area or elsewhere  to take the guidelines that we issued and avoid nonessential travel. But for anyone in the New York metropolitan area who has traveled, our task force is encouraging you to monitor your temperature, be sensitive to symptoms, and we are asking anyone who has traveled out of the New York City metropolitan area to anywhere else in the country to selfisolate for 14 days.We have to deal with the New York City metropolitan area as a highrisk area. And for that reason were  were taking these steps and ask you for the cooperation of the American people.Because of the spread in New York City, we will continue to surge resources. The President has described this. FEMA is coordinating with New York State for the arrival of the USS Comfort in just a matter of a few short weeks. Over the next 24 hours, more than 4,000 additional ventilators will be delivered to New York State as well.New York State has prioritized three alternative medical facilities, and, at the Presidents direction, the Army Corps of Engineers is working on plans to build those facilities out.Youve heard the President speak about the Javits Center  the addition of 1,000 beds. And well continue  I want the people of New York City and the Greater New York City area to know that were with you. Were going to continue to provide resources to support your state and local officials as they confront the spread of the coronavirus in that great city.On the subject of supplies, we had team meetings today at FEMA, which is working on identifying the critical personal protective equipment and ventilators. At this point, FEMA informs us today that they are distributing 7.6 million N95 respirator masks, more than 14 million surgical masks, and FEMA has already shipped 73 pallets of personal protective equipment to New York, 36 pallets of personal protective equipment to the State of Washington.Well be meeting again tonight. As you know, the President stood FEMA, as the National Response Center, up and they are in the lead for the  the approach to the coronavirus, which is locally executed, statemanaged, and federally supported. And well continue to surge those resources and make sure that theyre available.One last word, if I may The President reflected on the response that businesses around the country have brought to this moment. It truly is extraordinary.Now, the President did initiate the Defense Production Act last week, but as the President has reflected many times, we will use the Defense Production Act if we need it to mandate production of  of critical supplies. But so far, no one has said no.And, in fact, we see industry stepping up. The President mentioned Ford Motor Company working with 3M and GE Health to expand production of medical supplies. We heard that McDonalds is now offering curbside delivery to truckers who are unable to use the drivethrough to pick up a Big Mac.And I spoke today, and the President spoke last week, with Tim Cook of Apple. And, at this moment in time, Apple went to their storehouses and is donating 9 million N95 masks to healthcare facilities at  all across the country and to the National Stockpile.There is a level of generosity that I know is inspiring to the President and is truly inspiring to all of us who are working on the White House Coronavirus Task Force.The President has made it clear that he hopes  in weeks, not months  to be able to open up the country. But let me make one last encouragement to every American We will get to that day quicker if every American will put into practice the Presidents coronavirus guidelines for our nation 15 Days to Slow the Spread. If every American will do this, I have no doubt that we will slow the spread, we will protect our most vulnerable, and we will heal our land.Thank you, Mr. President.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much, Mike. Thank you.Kaitlan.