James S. Brady Press Briefing RoomMarch 23, 2020611 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Well, thank you very much. And I see we have fewer people because of the virus problem, and we appreciate you being here. And this is getting to be more and more social distancing, and thats fine. Thats the way it should be, and its too bad. We extend our best wishes to the person affected. And we feel sure that he or she will be better very soon.And thank you for being here. America continues to mobilize every segment of our society to turn the tide in the battle against the virus. I want Americans to know that we will get through this challenge. The hardship will end it will end soon. Normal life will return. And our economy will rebound very, very strongly. But, right now, in the midst of this great national trial, Americans must remain united in purpose and focused on victory.To every single American, please know that the sacrifice youre making at this time is saving lives  many, many lives. Its very important that we totally protect our Asian American community in the United States and all around the world. Theyre amazing people, and the spreading of the virus is not their fault in any way, shape, or form. Theyre working closely with us to get rid of it. We will prevail together. Its very important.From the beginning, we have been working closely with our nations best scientists and medical professionals, and we will continue to do so until we have defeated the virus. Our public health experts, who are terrific, are studying the variation in the disease across the country, and we will be using data to recommend new protocols to allow local economies to cautiously resume their activity at the appropriate time.We also have a large team working on what the next steps will be once the medical community gives a region the okay  meaning the okay to get going, to get back lets go to work.Our country wasnt built to be shut down. This is not a country that was built for this. It was not built to be shut down.My administration continues to work with Democrats and Republicans to reach an agreement on an urgent relief bill for the millions of American workers and small businesses and large businesses that were badly affected by the medical difficulty that weve had.If you had a viable business in January, we are committed to ensuring the same is true in the coming weeks. In fact, we want to make it even better than it was before, and were doing things to help in that regard.America will again, and soon, be open for business  very soon  a lot sooner than three or four months that somebody was suggesting. A lot sooner. We cannot let the cure be worse than the problem itself. Were not going to let the cure be worse than the problem.At the end of the 15day period, well make a decision as to which way we want to go, where we want to go, the timing. And essentially, were referring to the timing of the opening  essentially, the opening of our country, because we have it pretty well shut down in order to get rid of this invisible enemy.Two weeks ago, we moved at record speed to pass paid sick leave and paid family medical leave and approve 8 billion, including money for the development of treatments and vaccines. And were doing tremendous work in both  on both fronts. The vaccines are coming along very quickly.Now Congress must demonstrate the same bipartisanship again and join together to pass the Senate bill as written, and avoid playing any more partisan games. They have to get together and just stop with the partisan politics. And I think thats happening. I got a call a little while ago I guess theyre getting closer. It should go quickly and must go quickly. Its not really a choice. They dont have a choice. They have to make a deal. This should not be a time for political agendas but rather one for focusing solely and squarely on the needs of the American people.We are going to save American workers, and were going to save them quickly. And were going to save our great American companies, both small and large. This was a medical problem. We are not going to let it turn into a longlasting financial problem. It started out as a purely medical problem, and its not going to go beyond that. Were just not going to allow that to happen.Our country was at its strongest financial point. Weve never had an economy like we had just a few weeks ago, and then it got hit with something that nobody could have ever thought possible. And we are fixing it. Were fixing it quickly. And I want to just thank the American people for what theyve been through and what theyre doing.Our country will be stronger than ever before, and we fully anticipate that. And it wont be that long.Let me provide you with an update on critical supplies FEMA is distributing 8 million N95 respirator masks and 13.3 million surgical masks across the country right now, focusing on the areas with the greatest need. We have shipped 73 pallets of personal protective equipment to New York City and 36 pallets to the State of Washington.In the past 96 hours, FEMA has also received donations of approximately 6.5 million masks. Were having millions and millions of masks made as we speak, and other personal protective equipment, which we will be distributing to medical hotspots. Were focused on some of the hotspots across the nation.Were seeing an outpouring of creativity and innovative ideas widely shared between the federal health leaders, governors and mayors, the scientific community, and members of the private sector. Really working together. Everybody is working together.Im pleased to report that clinical trials in New York will begin existing for existing drugs that may prove effective against the virus. At my direction, the federal government is working to help obtain large quantities of chloroquine. And you can look from any standpoint tomorrow, in New York  we think tomorrow pretty early  the hydroxychloroquine and the ZPak, I think as a combination, probably, is looking very, very good. And its going to be distributed.We have 10,000 units going, and itll be distributed tomorrow. Itll be available and is now they already have it. Theyre going to distribute it tomorrow morning to a lot of people in New York City and New York. Were studying it very closely, watching it very closely.You probably saw a couple of articles today came out where a gentleman  they thought he was not going to make it. He said goodbye to his family. They had given him the drug just a little while before, but he thought it was over. His family thought he was going to die. And a number of hours later, he woke up, felt good. Then he woke up again, and he felt really good. And hes in good shape. And hes very happy for this particular drug that we got approved in recordsetting time. Theres never been anything even close to it.And I want to thank the FDA, which has been incredible, and Dr. Hahn  Stephen Hahn  a highly respected man. But theyre doing everything possible to increase production and available supply of these drugs  not only this drug, but also others that are coming. Remdesivir is coming from Regeneron. A couple of others are also under study.But the one that Im very excited about right now is the one we just mentioned. And I think theres a real chance. I mean, again, we dont know, but theres a real chance that it could have a tremendous impact. It would be a gift from God if that worked. That would be a big game changer. So well see.But distribution starts tomorrow morning, early, in New York. And I think a lot of people are going to be  hopefully theyre going to be very happy with the result. But were all going to be watching closely. Its something we have to try. Its been very, very successful on malaria. Very, very successful.And countries with malaria have had a interesting thing happen. They take this particular drug  its a very powerful drug  and there is very little semblance of the virus in those countries. And there are those that say because this drug is very prevalent because of the malaria. So well see what happens.Im also announcing that were postponing the deadline for compliance with REAL ID requirements. At a time when were asking Americans to maintain social distancing, we do not want to require people to go with their local DMV. We will be announcing the new deadline very soon. Its going to be announced in a very short moment.Overnight, we successfully brought home 103 American citizens after they had been stranded for 10 days in Brazil, following a cruise. We want to thank the Brazilian government and their great President. Most of those returned were senior citizens. My administration, in cooperation with Governor Greg Abbott of Texas and the private sector, coordinated their safe return to the United States. So thank you to Governor Abbott. Terrific governor, terrific man.Earlier today, I signed an executive order invoking presidential authority under Section 4512 of the Defense Production Act to prohibit the hoarding of vital medical equipment and supplies such as hand sanitizers, face masks, and personal protective equipment.We have a lot of face masks a lot of equipment is coming in. And we have some people hoarding, and Attorney General Barr is going to be speaking about that in a second. We want to prevent price gouging, and critical health and medical resources are going to be protected in every form.Under this directive, the Secretary of Health and Human Services is authorized to designate essential health and medical supplies as scarce. So hell designate certain supplies and medical elements as scarce, and that means it will be a crime to stockpile these items in excessive quantities, which is happening to a relatively small degree, we think, but nevertheless its happening. We cant let it happen. And we cant let them resell them at excessive prices, which some people are doing.Very simply, we will not allow anyone to exploit the suffering of American citizens for their own profit. So were going to be watching that with our great Attorney General very closely.The Department of Justice will be aggressively prosecuting fraudulent schemes related to the pandemic. Yesterday, federal prosecutors took action in their first case, shutting down a website selling a totally fake vaccine  if you can believe that one. As President, I will always fight to protect Americans from being exploited.Thankfully, all throughout the country, were witnessing extraordinary acts of compassion, benevolence, and unity. Construction companies are donating masks by the hundreds of thousands. Manufacturing workers are transforming their assembly lines. Citizens are volunteering to deliver food and medicine to the elderly. Were truly seeing America at its best. Were really seeing things that people never thought even could happen. Frankly, we never thought this could happen. But the way most Americans are working toward getting it solved and just doing what they have to do to make this go away has been incredible. Its been incredible.I want to take a moment to thank the everyday heroes who are making our vast effort against the virus possible. And thank you to the healthcare workers and the first responders. These are very brave people. Thanks also to the hardworking men and women of Federal Express, UPS, the United States Postal Service, and the truckers who are maintaining our supply chains and supply lines. We thank you very much. Great job.We also want to give our regards and thanks to everyone at our grocery stores working the night shift so that shelves can be restocked, and the restaurant workers and delivery drivers keeping our families fed. So many of these restaurants, its incredible  theyre doing service where people come and they pick it up  delivery. I mean, its been incredible what theyve been doing. Totally different business than they were in, other than they cook food. Other than that, its like a totally different business.Most of all, I want to thank the American people for rising to the challenge and showing incredible courage, determination, patience, grace, and grit. From New York to Seattle and everywhere in between, your acts of selflessness and sacrifice and ingenuity are a powerful testament to the American character. Its really being shown. Its really showing up at a level that people are really respecting. All over the world, theyre respecting. And the world has problems. Were at 148 countries now. A hundred and fortyeight countries are affected by the invisible scourge.And all of the uplifting reflections of the American spirit are out there for everyone to see. Together, we will care for our fellow citizens. And we will win this war, and well win it much sooner than people think. And well be back in business as a country pretty soon. Youll be hearing about that also pretty soon.Now Id like to ask Attorney General Bill Barr to say a few words. And well take questions in a little while.Thank you.ATTORNEY GENERAL BARR Let me start by thanking you, Mr. President and Mr. Vice President, for your decisive leadership in this unprecedented battle to save American lives. At the Department of Justice, were working hard to protect the health and safety of our personnel, while at the same time keeping our enforcement efforts at full throttle.So Id like to thank all of my colleagues and law enforcement, not just those at the federal level, but of all our state and local partners the police officers, the sheriffs, the deputies who are protecting and serving their communities, often at great risk to themselves.What Id like to do here is start with a few remarks about the order that the President mentioned to ensure the availability of critical medical and health supplies from hoarding and price gouging.On March 18th, the President issued Executive Order 13909 invoking the Defense Production Act with respect to the health and medical resources needed to respond to the spread of COVID19, including PPE and ventilators.We have started to see some evidence of potential hoarding and price gouging. And so, earlier today, the President signed a second executive order, providing the authority to address, if it becomes necessary, hoarding that threatens the supply of those necessary health and medical resources.Under Section 102 of the Defense Production Act, the President is authorized to prohibit the hoarding of needed resources by designating those materials as scarce, or as materials whose supply would be threatened by persons accumulating excessive amounts. Once specific materials are so designated, persons are prohibited from accumulating those items in excess of reasonable personal or business needs, or for the purpose of selling them in excess of prevailing market prices. It is a crime to engage in prohibited activity.In todays executive order, the President is delegating to the Secretary of HHS this authority to protect against hoarding by designating these critical items. Now, no items have been designated yet, and the Department of Justice is going to be working with HHS to identify cases where a hoarding may be impeding the supply of health and medical resources needed to respond to the COVID19 pandemic.Today, we convened our first task force meeting  a national task force that will be working on the supply chain issues and specifically on the problem of hoarding and price gouging. And we are designating in each of our 93 United States Attorneys Offices a lead prosecutor who will be responsible in that district for pursuing these cases.I will also want to say that we have not waited for this order to be signed. As we have received evidence recently, we have already initiated investigations of activities that are disrupting the supply chain and suggestive of hoarding.I want to stress that were not talking about consumers or businesses stockpiling supplies for their own operations. Were talking about people hoarding these goods and materials on an industrial scale for the purpose of manipulating the market and ultimately deriving windfall profits.If you are  have a big supply of toilet paper in your house, this is not something you have to worry about. But if you are sitting on a warehouse with masks  surgical masks  you will be hearing a knock on your door.So with that, Mr. President, Ill turn it back to you.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much.Deborah, please.DR. BIRX Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. To start, I want to really thank all the ministers of health around the world who have been sending us their data, despite the fight that theyre in themselves, particularly our European colleagues. They continue to send us, primarily, their mortality data, which is really very critical, because when youre in the midst of this level of fight  that many of the European countries are  following mortality data will give you the best insight right now on how the epidemic is proceeding in those countries, because they really cant be testing at the level to really understand the depth and breadth of their new cases.In the mortality data that has been provided to us, there has been no child under 15 that has succumbed to the virus in Europe. There was the one 14yearold in China. So we still see that there is less severity in children, and so that should be reassuring to the moms and dads out there.To Generation Z and to my millennial colleagues who have been really at the forefront of many of these responses Less than 1 percent of all the mortality is less than 50. And so this is, I think, also a very important point.That doesnt mean that individuals wont have severe disease. So still 99 percent of all the mortality coming out of Europe, in general, is over 50, and preexisting conditions. The preexisting condition piece still holds in Italy, with the majority of the mortality having three or more preexisting conditions.I think this is reassuring to all of us, but it doesnt change the need to continue to protect the elderly. And in order to protect the elderly, we all need to continue to do the Presidents directives and guidance for the next week of the 15day challenge.Finally, I wanted to really close by thanking the laboratory personnel that have been at the frontlines. Two hundred and fifty thousand tests have been run in the last seven days. This happened because these large commercial laboratories are doing aroundtheclock runs. And remember, all of them are being exposed to the virus in the same way from the swabs, yet tirelessly they have worked on and on to get those results available.They are still getting more tests than they can run per day. Thats because we were primarily expanded into the  what we call the Roche highthroughput TriCore machine. Those results have been getting to the clients, and weve asked them to prioritize hospitalized patients.There was a breakthrough today, and I think youll see this from the FDA, in  for all of those of you who are waiting for selfswabbing options, those are going to be available sometime this week, to be able to  individuals do their own tests.That said, remember, these platforms are keeping up with those who need to be diagnosed in the hospitals and those who come to the emergency room quite ill, so the hospital beds can be freed up for those that dont have COVID. So that will be critical that if you dont need a test and if it doesnt change your clinical course, do not come in to be tested. And I think that mortality data that I gave you should be very reassuring to all of you.Finally, to conclude New York City. The New York metro area of New Jersey, New York City, and parts of Long Island have an attack rate close to 1 in a 1,000. This is five times what the other areas are seeing. There  through the highthroughput lab investigations, were finding that 28 percent of the submitted specimens are positive from that area, where its less than 8 percent in the rest of the country.So to all of my friends and colleagues in New York This is the group that needs to absolutely social distance and selfisolate at this time. Clearly the virus had been circulating there for a number of weeks to have this level of penetrance into the general community.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much, Deborah. Mike, go ahead.THE VICE PRESIDENT Thank you, Mr. President. The White House Coronavirus Task Force met today, but we also convened, at the Presidents direction, a conference call with the nations governors and we focused on efforts at mitigation, at testing and supplies. We discussed the Presidents recent approval of disaster declarations for Washington and California and New York.But we also assured governors whove submitted major disaster declarations that we will be reviewing them in an expeditious manner to ensure the full resources of the federal government are brought to bear.The President wanted us to make it clear that the federal government will do whatever it takes to support an effort that is locally executed, state managed, and federally supported. We reiterated that to our governors today, listened to them about their specific needs, and, frankly, made it clear to them that while the President has published at Coronavirus.gov the 15 Days To Slow the Spread for every American  and millions of Americans are addressing these commonsense guidelines to prevent the spread of the coronavirus in the days ahead  we made it clear to the governors that this President and this administration fully supports decisions that governors are making in communities and states that are particularly impacted by the spread of the coronavirus, and we are grateful for their efforts.We also spoke to the governors about the importance of the legislation that is currently being negotiated on Capitol Hill and asked them to encourage members of the House and the Senate to move very quickly. The bill that is currently being negotiated, the President said that he believes will be resolved soon. And were encouraged by it. It will speed direct payments to families. The average family of four will receive 3,000 directly. Therell be payroll subsidies for small businesses around America to keep people on the payroll while they might be required to stay home unemployment insurance benefits assistance to hospitals and major industries. And we continue to urge the Congress to act and ask the governors to engage their delegations.On the subject of testing, we reiterated our thanks to states across the country that are rapidly expanding testing at drivethrough sites and at community sites. And as Dr. Birx just reflected, because of the unprecedented public and private partnership that the President initiated with our commercial labs, we stand here today with 313,000 tests having been completed, with the test results delivered to Americans, and still somewhat more than 41,000 have contracted coronavirus.But this staterun effort is continuing to receive the full support of our team at FEMA and at the U.S. Public Health Service. Were deploying personnel, were deploying resources, and testing is literally expanding around the country by the hour.As Dr. Birx also mentioned, the FDA has been in the process of reviewing less invasive methods of testing. The President and I both reflected on the fact that we have been tested and weve been working with the FDA to make it possible for selfcollected nasal swabs, where individuals could, at the end of their nasal passage, collect a sample. And Im pleased to report that selfcollected swabs can now be collected in clinics and at drivethrough testing sites.This will expedite the testing process, of course, but it will also reduce the risk to healthcare providers for exposure to the coronavirus, and it will minimize the drain on personal protective equipment.With the current test that goes pretty significantly up the nasal passage, people have to wear gear and then change out the gear. And this new selfadministered test will actually not require the drain on personal protective equipment. And its all a part of our effort, as Admiral Polowczyk will discuss in just a few moments, to meet the supply needs that we have across the country but to meet them with efforts at conservation as well.On the subject of testing, its important to remember, as the Old Book says, it is not the healthy who need a doctor, but the sick. And so, if you dont have symptoms, you dont need to get a coronavirus test. We encourage every American to adhere to that so that the testing resources are available for people that are symptomatic.We also will be issuing today, from Health and Human Services, new guidance to direct all commercial labs to prioritize testing for hospitalized patients. And that guidance is going out tonight. We also reminded the governors today that all state laboratories, all hospital laboratories are now required by law to report the results of coronavirus tests to the CDC.On the subject of supplies and our meeting today at FEMA, we received a report of the new Supply Chain Stabilization Task Force. Rear Admiral John Polowczyk is leading that up at FEMA, and the task force is working to identify medical supplies that exist in the marketplace today, to evaluate the National Stockpile, and also working with industries around the country to produce even more of the critical medical supplies.And as the President said, businesses across America are stepping up and maybe as never before in our history. 3M, in fact, has diverted 500,000 N95 masks from commercial customers, and theyre being delivered today to New York and Seattle. Facebook, we would acknowledge, has donated their emergency reserve of over 700,000 N95 masks to healthcare workers. And these are just a few examples of the generosity of businesses.Were also seeing companies step forward to repurpose their manufacturing facilities to create ventilators, to create equipment. And I know I speak for the President when I say how grateful and proud we are for that.We also discussed with the governors a real breakthrough on the availability of ventilators. We called on the governors to serve at all  survey all outpatient surgical centers and hospital operating rooms because surgical ventilators that anesthesiologists use, because of an FDA decision rendered this last weekend, those can be easily converted now to ventilators that can be used for people struggling with severe illness from the coronavirus.And so we called on our governors, in conversations with state leaders, to survey all of their surgical centers and hospital operating rooms to identify that equipment. And with the new FDA guidelines, theyll be able to convert those to help meet the needs of ventilators across the country.We are now eight days into the Presidents 15 Days to Slow the Spread, and the American people are rising to the challenge. Were doing this. But in the days that remain between now and the end of the 15 days, were going to need every American to take this seriously. Listen to your state and local health authorities where there may be additional and stronger guidance in areas where the coronavirus spread has been more severe.But for every American, know that the part that you do, that your family does, and that you do in your community to put into practice these principles of social distancing  using a drivethrough at a local restaurant  will make an enormous difference in lowering the trajectory of the coronavirus spreading across our country.Its going to take all of us, but with the ongoing cooperation of the American people, with compassion, with the ingenuity of American industry, with dedicated leadership at the state and federal level, I know that we can slow the spread, we can protect our most vulnerable, and we will heal our land.THE PRESIDENT Thank you, Mike, very much. Admiral, please.REAR ADMIRAL POLOWCZYK Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, Im Rear Admiral John Polowczyk. Im the Supply Chain Task Force lead at FEMA.My task is to increase the supply of critical medical supplies, which include personal protective equipment and ventilators  items like that.I just want to take a few moments to explain the organization that weve stood up this week, in the last few days, and our approach. So you have a chart behind me. I have a focused  two focus leads one on personal protective equipment, medical supplies, and a focus lead on ventilators.Operating under four lines of effort  the first line of effort you see is Preservation. And the leaders tonight have talked about that  the ability to make our stuff last longer.Acceleration. We have a team of people that are searching the globe for personal protective equipment, figuring out where it is, figuring out if we need to buy it or just transport it and get it here faster.We have a line of effort called Reallocation. Were working with our industry partners to illuminate the supply chain. There are many vendors, many distributors, all on a separate system. Nobody has one sight picture for that supply chain. Weve brought our industry partners in. Were weaving that together to make better allocation decisions and understand where it is and where it needs to go.We have a line called Expansion. Youve heard some of that today. If those that are wanting to convert plants, those that want to get into the business, we have the tools to help them to go do that.So, two focus areas right now PPE and ventilators. Four lines of effort  working the problem of the task to get more here and increase the supplies.Thank you, sir.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Thank you very much.