James S. Brady Press Briefing RoomMarch 22, 2020555 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Just before we begin, I want to mention were working very hard  long  on getting a young group of people out of Peru. Weve removed some, and the rest are being removed with the cooperation of the Peruvian government. And were also dealing with Honduras on getting some people out that got caught up. And we are working on that very well  again, with the Honduran governments work. And theyre working with us, so I appreciate that.We have a couple of other locations that well report to you, and we were able to get a young woman released from a certain area who was being horribly accosted, horribly treated. And we spoke to General Milley. General Milley took care of it. We went in and we got her out. And well  well report further on that one. But its  that was rough stuff.I want to thank General Milley. I want to thank all of the people that were involved and the people that went in to get her. I want to thank you very much.As we continue to marshal every resource at Americas disposal in the fight against the Chinese virus, were profoundly grateful to our nations state and local leaders, doctors, nurses, law enforcement, and first responders who are waging this battle on the ground.It is absolutely critical that Americans continue to follow the federal governments guidelines  so important  about social distancing, nonessential travel, and hand washing. Defeating this unseen enemy requires the help and commitment of every single American.I want to just say that Senator Rand Paul  a friend of mine hes been a great friend of mine. Hes been always there when we needed him, when the country needed him. And, as you know, he just tested positive. Jose sic DazBalart  spoke to him yesterday  tested positive.And so people are  theyre getting quite close to home, and its a terrible thing thats going on. The hidden enemy. I call it the hidden enemy. And I think theyll all be fine. I hope theyre going to be fine. But I just want to send our regards  and I think I can speak on behalf of our country  to those two great friends of mine.Were working urgently with Congress on legislation to support the millions of workers, small businesses, and industries whove been hit hard by the virus through no fault of their own. Our goal is to get relief to Americans as quickly as possible so that families can get by and small businesses can keep workers on the payroll.This will help our economy, and you will see our economy skyrocket once this is over. I think its going to skyrocket. Its a  its a pentup demand. Its a builtup demand. And I guess you really have to say, Who knows? But I think its going to be a tremendous day when we win this war  and we will win the war. We want to win the war with as few  if you look at it  just deaths as possible. We want to have as few number of deaths as possible.Today, Im announcing action to help New York, California, and Washington ensure that the National Guard can effectively respond to this crisis. The National Guard  these are tremendous people. Theyre fully on alert. Weve signed what we had to sign, and its been activated.Were dealing also with other states. These states have been hit the hardest. Actually, pretty much by far, you could say, the hardest. Everybody can see that. Just look at the numbers.And, through FEMA, the federal government will be funding 100 percent of the cost of deploying National Guard units to carry out approved missions to stop the virus while those governors remain in command. So the governors, locally, are going to be in command, and well be following them and we hope they can do the job, and I think they will. I spoke with all three of the governors today, and  just a little while ago  and theyre very happy with what were going to be doing because well be announcing some other things for those three states and some other states where its hit the hardest.This action will give them maximum flexibility to use the Guard against the virus without having to worry about costs or liability and freeing up state resources to protect the health and safety of the people in their state.The federal government has deployed hundreds of tons of supplies from our National Stockpile to locations with the greatest need. In order to assist in those areas, I approved the State of New Yorks request for a major disaster declaration  something which Governor Cuomo has been asking for and which I agree. And we had it done in very rapid fashion. We approved this on Friday evening, and we are working very, very hard to get all of these things not only signed up but completed and finished and win.The request from the State of Washington for a major disaster declaration was approved just a little while ago. It went through the process and we moved it very quickly. The request from the State of California was just received, and we will have it approved very quickly. Well be working  I told that to Gavin Newsom. And we are  were working on getting that done very quickly itll be done maybe tonight.Weve large  we have large quantities of medical equipment and supplies on the way, based on all of this, to those states including respirators, surgical masks, and gowns, face shields, coveralls, and gloves, with large quantities already delivered to Washington and to New York.In addition to large quantities of supplies, Ive also directed FEMA to supply the following four large federal medical stations with 1,000 beds for New York, eight large federal medical stations with 2,000 beds for California, and three large federal medical stations and four small federal medical stations with 1,000 beds for the State of Washington. The governors know. The supplies en route to California and New York will be delivered within the next 48 hours.In addition, the Naval Hospital ship, the USNS Mercy  its an incredible ship these two ships are incredible  one on the West Coast one on the East Coast  will be deployed to Los Angeles to add emergency surge medical capacity. And they have a tremendous capacity. They are really something.I will say that, if you look at some of the things weve been doing  and now those numbers have gone up  and just to be a little bit more exacting, weve done a presidential approval for request for a major disaster declaration for the State of New York. Approval of Title 32 National Guard activation for the State of New York. Were providing all of this at no cost to the governor.I spoke with Governor Cuomo. Hes working hard. Were all working hard together. The relationship has really been amazing. But it also enables the governor to provide robust National Guard support to the state. And the 25 percent  were going to be waiving that 25 percent cost. Were picking up, well be coordinating, and theyll be doing something with very special people.Mission assignment of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to provide support to build out alternate care sites. Theyre doing various alternate care sites, which have now been designated by New York. Four large federal medical stations of one thousand beds. These are very complex places, actually, with great equipment and great people.Strategic National Stockpile order. And this is as of a number of days ago  so far delivered to New York  and this is the 19th. We had the N95 respirators  186,416 delivered. Weve delivered 444,078 surgical masks. Many have been delivered since then. Face shields  weve delivered 84,560 face shields. Surgical gowns  surgical gowns  68,944 to New York. Coveralls  352. Gloves  245,486. Also, to New York, in terms of whats been delivered just since then  the numbers are quite large, and we have tremendous numbers of companies also making equipment.For the State of Washington, weve delivered 369,000 N95 respirators, 507,406 surgical masks. And this is as of about three days ago. Face shields  63,788 face shields. Surgical gowns  107,850. Gloves  240,376. And we have many, many things pending. Its actually not pending its being  theyre being fabricated. Theyre being made. And theyre moving. Now, for Washington  so we have four small federal medical stations, 250 beds. And for Washington  State of Washington  we have three large federal medical stations, 750 beds. And then you have, as I said, the approval of the Title 32 National Guard.State of California  again, to be very precise  were going to have the approval of the Title 32 National Guard activation. And were providing all of this again, like in New York, at no cost to the governor  meaning to Governor Newsom and the state. No cost to the state. It enables the governor to provide robust National Guard support to the state. So theyre going to have control of the National Guard. The federal government is sending  these are incredible people that are being sent.We have eight large federal medical stations with over 2,000 beds, and thats going to California. And then Strategic National Stockpile order  weve ordered, likewise, hundreds of thousands of different items. I wont go into the exact numbers, but the numbers are very substantial. But were having a tremendous additional number sent.And whatever the states can get, they should be getting. I say were sort of a backup for the states. And some of the states are doing really well and some dont do as well. The ones that dont do as well need more help, but these are three states that really do need help because they are  they are hit very hard.And the outpouring from the private sector has also been extraordinary. Im pleased to report that Honeywell  great company  has just announced it will immediately expand its personal protective equipment manufacturing operations in Rhode Island to produce millions of additional N95 masks. Theyre very hard to get. Theyre actually quite complex. For the U.S. governments Strategic National Stockpile. Theyll be immediately then delivered to the various states.This expansion is already underway, and its going to provide a lot of jobs for that state  probably around 500. The masks will be distributed by the government for the use of the health, safety, and emergency. And this is for response workers  primarily for response workers. These are very highend.This expansion is in addition to Honeywells action to more than double production of its existing personal protective equipment manufacturing plants. They make a lot of different things and theyre doubling and tripling their production. Theyre going around the clock.Today, Im also announcing the launch of a new publicprivate consortium organized by the White House, the Department of Energy, and IBM to unleash the power of American supercomputing resources to fight the Chinese virus. The following leaders from private industries, academia, and government will be contributing, and theyre going to be contributing a lot of different things, but primarily computing resources to help researchers discover new treatments and vaccines. Theyll be working along with NIH and all of the people that are working on this.But tremendous help from IBM, Amazon, Google, Microsoft, MIT, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, the Department of Energys national labor  laboratories, the National Science Foundation, and NASA. Theyre all contributing to this effort, and theyre fully in gear.This afternoon, I also want to update you on the steps were taking to protect and serve our countrys 18 million veterans. These are great people  our amazing veterans. Theyve shown their eternal loyalty to our nation, and this is the time where theyre in need, and we are going to show our loyalty to them. Were being very protective of our veterans.Were working on certain hospitals where we may be doing some work  in Louisiana, in particular, and some other states. Veterans hospitals. Were going to be very protective of our veterans. Some of them are of that very vulnerable age. And some of them, obviously, are not feeling well. And some of them are still suffering the wounds of war from many years ago.Yesterday, I signed vital legislation to ensure that the G.I. Bill will cover distance learning during this emergency. I also spoke with many of our veteran service organizations, or the VSOs, to describe our unprecedented action. In February, the Department of Veterans Affairs established 19 emergency operation centers throughout the country.One of the things that theyve been trying to get done for many years  you all know this from following me over the last number of years, but we got it done pretty quickly theyve been trying to get it done for many, many decades  was Choice. Veterans Choice and also Veterans Accountability.Now, if its crowded within this  if they cant get to a doctor  we have great doctors in the VA. I have to say that. We have fantastic doctors  as good as they come. But its hard to because of what was bureaucracy, but no longer bureaucracy. Weve done a lot of things, in that case, because of Accountability. When people arent doing their jobs or if theyre bad or if theyre sadistic, or if they steal or anything bad happens, were now allowed to fire them for  I signed that a year and a half ago. For many years, you werent able to do that.So the VA is working. And I was just told by our great leader at the VA, Robert  Robert Wilkie  he said, for the first time, we got the highest marks in the history  highest poll numbers in the history of the Veterans Administration. It came out a week ago that  that theyre happy.And, look, one of the reasons that happened  highest in history. One of the reasons that happened is because of Veterans Choice. If they have to wait on line, they go and see a private doctor and we pay the bill. And  and they get better. They dont have to wait two weeks and three weeks or two days. But they get better. And a lot of times, they waited so long that they would they would have a problem and it would end up being terminal because they couldnt get the kind of treatment that they deserve.So, highest poll numbers, highest approval numbers in the history of the VA. I was just given that information yesterday.We restricted visitors access to 135 veteran community living centers which house nearly 8,000 veterans with chronic medical conditions so that we limit their exposure to the virus. We want to totally take care of our veterans. And thats what were doing.The VA has canceled most elective medical and surgical procedures. Theyre delaying them until after this is gone, after weve won.We began providing lifesaving care to patients who had symptoms across the 171 VA medical centers nationwide. Thats a big deal. Under my administration, the VA has also been a leader in expanding telehealth. Telehealth is becoming a bigger and bigger factor in medicine.This month, we have taken bold action to cut through the red tape and make telehealth available for millions more Americans during this crisis. They can speak to a doctor from the safety of their home rather than risk becoming infected or make it a tremendously long trip when, frankly, youll speak to a great doctor right from your home. Its happening telehealth. Were very much at the forefront of that, too. Were very proud of it, and it also takes a big burden off our system.We continue to accelerate the development of safe and effective vaccines. Were also aggressively investigating a number of antiviral therapies and treatments to determine their potential in reducing the severity and duration of the symptoms.And you know how I feel because how I feel is, on Tuesday, theyre going to be starting it on Tuesday morning and were going to have some medications delivered that  were going to see if they work. They certainly are effective in other ways. And they  they are safe, from the standpoint  is that theyre not  theyre not killing people. Were not going to have that. So, a lot of great things have been happening in that regard.I just want to finish, and then were going to ask a couple of people to say a few words that have been so much in the forefront of this incredible job that weve all been given.But I want to say that I know that this is a challenging time for all Americans. Were enduring a great national trial, and we will prove that we can meet the moment.I want to assure the American people that were doing everything we can each day to confront and ultimately defeat this horrible, invisible enemy. Were at war. In a true sense, were at war. And were fighting an invisible enemy. Think of that.For those of you who are feeling alone and isolated, I want you to know that we are all joined together as one people, eternally linked by our shared national spirit  we love our country  a spirit of courage and love and patriotism. No American is alone as long as we are united. And we are united. Were very united. People are saying things now that, three weeks ago, they didnt talk that way. Were very united.No force is equal to the strength of a uni  really, a unified America, a united America, an America like we have it right now.For those worried and afraid, please know As long as I am your President, you can feel confident that you have a leader who will always fight for you, and I will not stop until we win. This will be a great victory. This is going to be a victory. And its going to be a victory that, in my opinion, will happen much sooner than originally expected.Its now attacking  the enemy is attacking 144 countries at this moment. One hundred and fortyfour. Thats unthinkable. Theres never been anything like this. And its vicious. It is vicious. Some people recover well and some people have a hard time. We all know that.But we will be totally victorious. We will then get our economy up to a level that it was and, in my opinion, beyond  because there will be a pentup demand. There is a pentup demand. And a lot of  a lot of great things will happen.But Im very proud of our country. Im very proud. Im very proud to be your President. And its just something thats just  youre very special people. So thank you very, very much.And Im going to ask, if I might, a combination of  Pete, why dont start off, okay? Please.ADMINISTRATOR GAYNOR Thank you, Mr. President.THE PRESIDENT Thank you.ADMINISTRATOR GAYNOR Just a little bit about what were doing in Washington, California, and New York. We understand that the states of Washington, New York, and California are the areas seeing a steady increase in COVID19 virus cases.In order to assist with additional needs identified in those areas, the State of New York was approved for a major disaster declaration this morning. Washington State was also approved earlier today. California submitted their request, and the President will consider it immediately.We have medical supplies in route to the states, including respirators, surgical masks, gowns, face shields, coveralls, gloves, with quantities already delivered to both Washington, New York, and California. And we anticipate additional supplies to be delivered over the next 42 hours to all these states.Under President Trumps unprecedented national emergency declaration on March 13, FEMA is assisting state, local, tribal, and territorial governments, including reimbursing eligible emergency protective measures taken at the directional guidance of public health officials in response to this emergency.All 50 states, the District of Columbia, 5 territories, and 2 tribes are working directly with FEMA under the nationwide emergency declaration for COVID19. With the assistance of the FEMA regional administrators, who are throughout the country, we are working to address the needs of state and local officials everywhere.States, tribal, and territorial governments do not need to request separate emergency declarations to receive FEMA assistance under this nationwide declaration. The emergency declaration does not authorize direct financial assistance available to individuals, such as disaster unemployment assistance or other needs assistance at this time.Just a note on the USNS Mercy Based on analysis of potential needs for hospital beds on the West Coast, the decision was made that the USNS hospital ship, Mercy, would have the greatest impact in California. The Department of Defense has been given direction to dispatch it to Los Angeles immediately. DOD has advised that the Mercy can get into position within a week or less of todays order.Even though there are more cases right now in Washington, the projected needs for beds in California is five times more that of Washington. The Mercy will be used to take pressure off local hospitals, other medical needs, and not for treating COVID19 cases.And finally, a little bit about the National Guard The federal government continues to take aggressive action and proactive steps to address the COVID19 threat as we attack the health and safety  or protect the health and safety of the American people. It remains our top priority. The National Guard is especially postured and equipped to assist federal, state, and local agencies, while serving the public.In response to this unprecedented nationwide operation, President Trump has approved Washington, California, and New York National Guard units under Title thirty  excuse me, Title 32 status for the COVID19 response. The Presidents action provide the nations governors continued command of their National Guard forces, enabling states to use additional resources to meet the missions necessary in the COVID19 response.The National Guard is a viable and responsive avenue to provide a muchneeded asset that is statemanaged and federally supported. And I want to be clear This Title 32 activation does not federalize National Guard members. The National Guard is still under the authority of each governor. Were working constantly with the Department of Defense. And weve had a lot of disinformation circling, and I want to make sure it is understood that this is not martial law. The Department of Defense, by way of a mission assignment, will lead this task.And then, finally, we continue to respond to hundreds of requests from governors across the country in filling all their critical needs.Thank you, Mr. President.THE PRESIDENT Thank you, Pete, very much.THE VICE PRESIDENT Peter.THE PRESIDENT Peter Navarro?MR. NAVARRO Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. President. Good evening. What I want to talk briefly about is the Defense Production Act and to give you the overview here.Using the full power of private enterprise and the full force from the federal government, my job at the White House is to make sure, tactically  working with FEMA and HHS  that the American people, particularly our healthcare professionals, get the gloves, the masks, and all the personal protective equipment they need.And I can tell you, sir, that since you signed the Defense Production Act, my job has gotten easier, and let me explain why. The Defense Production Act, in this context, has two primary functions. One is mobilization of the industrial base  in this case, the public health industrial base  and the other is allocation of resources, both from the supply chain to the manufacturers, and from the manufacturers to the end users, such as the healthcare professionals.Now, what were seeing on a purely voluntary basis  based on the leadership of this administration  were seeing the greatest mobilization in the industrial base since World War Two. And, every day, Im working with organizations and companies  National Association of Manufacturing, the National Council of Textile Organizations, and so on  in terms of building up, rapidly, our capabilities to get what you need.Now, lets think about what mobilization means. It can mean, for example, repurposing a factory. So Pernod Ricard called us last week and they had three hurdles they had to deal with. They called my office. Had to make a call to Treasury, FDA, and HHS to clear the path. We got that done that day. They started their production that day, moving from alcoholic beverages to hand sanitizers. And, as we speak, a truck is moving towards New York and will arrive there Tuesday to share with the hospitals over 1,000 gallons of sanitizers. So that would be that would be a repurpose.A second example would be one that the President offered with Honeywell. Again, Honeywell called the White House asking for help from the President. And what they said is, Look, we want to do this new factory in Smithfield, Rhode Island. They called me on a Friday morning. And by that night, we had a contract in to HHS. HHS flipped that immediately. And I had Honeywell moving people and equipment from Massachusetts to that facility in Smithfield, Rhode Island. And were going to have those masks produced within 30 days, moving on the assembly chain. So my point is Mobilization is repurposing, building up capabilities.And the other portion is, of course, the allocation of resources. Now, what I can tell you so far is that the Defense Production Act, sir, has given me quiet leverage. When you have a strong leader, you can take a light hand, initially.And so what weve seen with this outpouring of volunteers from private enterprise  were getting what we need without  without putting the heavy hand of government down.There will be, possibly, cases down the road  and the manufacturers have actually asked me and alerted me of this  where some places in the supply chain, they may have problems that the White House will have to break through using the Defense Production Act. We wont hesitate to do that.The last thing Ill tell you is that I also get a lot of calls that are very disquieting. Brokers are offering millions of items, whether goggles, masks, or whatever. And you go through three different brokers, tracing to a warehouse in LA thats allegedly got 10 million masks and they might charge you seven times what they cost. Thats price gouging.We are going to  message to the hoarders If you got any large quantities of material that this country needs right now, get them to market or get them to us. Well pay you a fair price. But if you dont do that, were going to come for you and make sure that doesnt happen in this country. And that would be a good use of the Defense Production Act.So I salute you, sir. Youve made my job easier, and I appreciate that.THE PRESIDENT Thank you, Peter, very much. Great job.Mike, please.THE VICE PRESIDENT Thank you, Mr. President. The Task Force met this afternoon, as we do every day.And let me begin today by simply saying thank you to the American people. And thank you for the way that people across this country  seven days into 15 Days to Slow the Spread  that people in communities large and small across America are responding, are cooperating, are communicating not just on behalf of their own health and the health of their family, but more importantly, on behalf of the most vulnerable among us. So on behalf of your President and our entire task force, just thank you to the American people.I also want to express our appreciation to the governors across the country. The President today just announced action in New York, California, and Washington State as the latest demonstration that this administration will do whatever it takes to support the leadership at the state and local level as the American people confront the spread of the coronavirus.The legislative efforts that are underway are being negotiated on Capitol Hill as we speak. The bipartisan spirit thats taking place there thats reflected in all of our interactions with state leaders around the country is a great credit to the nation. But it should be a great encouragement to the American people that your government at the federal level, at the state level, working with courageous healthcare providers all across America, are coming together to meet this moment.And that is the way our system works. Its extremely important that the American people recognize that one of the things that makes America different is that we have a system of federalism and that the  by putting FEMA in the lead, the President has emphasized that our response to the coronavirus is, in the anthem of FEMA, it is locally executed, statemanaged, and federally supported.We want the people on the ground  the decision makers  to have what they need. We want states to be able to manage the unique circumstances in their states. And whether it be the legislation moving through the Congress or the efforts the President announced today  major disaster declarations, Title 32 on the National Guard, resources flowing, hospital beds flowing  were going to continue to make sure that our states have what they need to meet this moment.Our task force continues to focus on the priorities the President has given us. They are testing mitigation and supplies.And on the subject of testing, as is evident to people across the country, testing is more and more available every single day. And well be detailing tomorrow, from this podium, the progress that we are making on tests.At this days reporting, 254,000 Americans have been tested and received results in coronavirus tests, with slightly more than 30,000 actually testing positive. Theres a bit of an encouraging word in that for every American. Remember, everyone thats being tested now, with the exception of our healthcare workers, are people that have symptoms that make them think they may have the coronavirus. And as our numbers come in consistently  because the 254,000 does not include all the local hospitals or all the local labs in our states  its working out to be About 1 in 10 Americans whove been tested, who thought they had coronavirus, actually had it 9 out of 10 did not.But well continue to roll out the testing to provide that resource to the American people. And were working to make testing happen faster. We expect word from the commercial labs that we should be caught up on the backlog in testing by the middle of the week. And we are urging today, on the Presidents behalf, that all labs would prioritize inpatient testing.Let me say again to all of the commercial labs in the country You will receive guidance from HHS tomorrow. But on behalf of the President and the White House Coronavirus Task Force, we are urging all commercial labs to prioritize inpatient testing. We want people that have been checked into a hospital, that are being treated for what they suspect to be coronavirus, to receive those tests more quickly.Also, Im pleased to report that yesterday the FDA approved an emergency authorization on a new test that should be in production by the end of March. It actually would be a coronavirus test, the results of which come back in 45 minutes. And were also working  the FDA is working with manufacturers around the country to come up with even faster, more innovative tests. And as we told our governors in several calls this week, governors and state health officials should simply contact FEMA for the latest information on testing solutions.Let me also say Tomorrow, when we gather at this podium, well be unveiling, with Dr. Bob Redfield in the lead, new guidance for people that work in law enforcement, first responders, people that work in what we call critical infrastructure in the country.It was in early March that CDC issued guidance for people that were asymptomatic or did not have symptoms but who had been exposed to someone with coronavirus who gave them guidance about being able to return to work wearing a mask for 14 days. And tomorrow, at this podium, CDC will unveil, in cooperation with the Department of Homeland Security, new guidance, which will make it possible for people that have been exposed to return to work more quickly with  by wearing a mask for a certain period of time.Let me also amplify a point on behalf of the President and on behalf of the State Department about Americans abroad. You know, one of the  one of the reasons why the United States is in a different position today than portions of Europe are  and China and elsewhere  is because the President suspended all travel from China. He suspended travel from Europe and the UK and Ireland.But the State Department is working around the clock to assist Americans who may find themselves overseas. Theyre able to come home theres no barrier to Americans coming back to American soil. Theyre screened, when they come home, through a series of airports. But were aware that, with flights being canceled, some Americans have found themselves unable to find a way home. And as the President said, weve been working very diligently, through the State Department, to make it possible. Commercial flights have been chartered. Were also working with the military for backup on flights.At this point, the State Department has brought more than 3,000 Americans back home. But speaking to the Secretary of State today, he wanted me to share a website and a phone number for any American that might be looking on from overseas. You can call the Smart Traveler Enrollment Program at 18884074747 or you can go online at STEP.State.gov. This will allow our embassies and consulates to gather important information about your situation and work to facilitate to bring you home.Let me say, finally  as I began, let me close  as the chairman or the leader of this White House Coronavirus Task Force We are 7 days into 15 days, and the American people are responding. Because as we speak about supplies, as we speak about testing, the most important thing every American can do is heed the guidance and the direction from your state and local officials, particularly in areas where we have widespread coronavirus infections.But for every American, putting into practice these measures that the President alluded to at the very beginning of his remarks is a way that we can  that we can do this, America that we can  we can lessen the magnitude of the coronavirus in our country. With the cooperation, compassion, generosity, and prayers of the American people, we can slow the spread, we can protect the most vulnerable, and we can heal our land.So lets do it, America.THE PRESIDENT Thank you, Mike, very much. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mike.So, just a couple of little things, and well take some questions. Maybe you will have some, maybe you wont. Thatll be a shock. It would shock the American public.But I have to say, on the testing, the new  if we  if this works out, and we think it might, the new test will be a very simple one  much easier than the existing test, which is quite complex and not  not a lot of fun to take. And this will be a game changer.But remember We inherited a broken, obsolete system. It was good for a small number of people, but not good for the millions of people that were talking about. And weve made this into a system that, no matter where you go in the world, thats where theyre going, thats what they want to do, thats how theyre going to be doing it should something like this happen again.So our people have done a fantastic job. Really, a fantastic job. And I hope the new test works out. Well know fairly soon, I think, Doctor. Were going to be knowing about that fairly soon. Hopefully, itll check out or test out. And we certainly are looking forward to that. That will be a very simple test by comparison. It wont will be unpleasant at all.And one other thing the ships. So we have the Mercy, and thats in  its going to California, as you know. Thats in  on the West Coast now. And you have a sister ship thats essentially a twin. Theyre incredible. I mean, theyre incredible ships.Ive seen it. Ive seen one of them, and they are unbelievable  what they can do and the capacity. Many operating rooms. You know, theyre wartime ships. Theyre meant for war. Many, many operating rooms. Stainless steel. These rooms are as good as there is anywhere in the nation, actually.I spoke with Governor Cuomo. We had a great conversation today  a number of conversations, actually. Hes working very hard. And we are going to be bringing that ship  thats called the Comfort. So you have the Mercy and the Comfort. The Comfort is on the East Coast. And that ship will be coming over the next three weeks  three or four weeks. Its being  it was in the middle of maintenance, and we are moving the maintenance very, very quickly. And were also supplying the ship simultaneously. Its actually big supplies going into those ships  big. And that ship will be coming up here over the next few weeks, and well probably be putting it in New York Harbor. And were making arrangements for that, also, as to where its going to be docked.So you have the Mercy and you have the Comfort. Theyll be coming up. The Mercy will start very  very quickly. Itll be arriving in Los Angeles pretty soon. So we look forward to that.A question? ABC, go ahead.