James S. Brady Press Briefing Room100 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. A lot of things going on, and were going to be going over to the Hill, and were having a lot of meetings. And, from the financial  this is a medical situation, not a financial situation. The financial, though, is moving along very nicely.I want to thank you for being here and update you on the progress weve made after a week of extraordinary mobilization in our war against the virus. Governors, mayors, the businesses, charities, and citizens are all working with urgency and speed toward one common goal, which is saving American lives.Were in communication with foreign countries. Its now at 148 foreign countries. Can you believe that? One hundred  you talk about a spread. You talk about a violent spread. One hundred and fortyeight countries. Not even believable.This has been a week of national action and of great national solidarity. People are getting along. Were getting along with Republicans and Democrats and independents and liberals and conservatives. And actually, its a very nice thing to see. Were all one beautiful, big American family, and thats taking place right now.Last night, I proved a major disaster declaration for the State of New York. I worked very closely with Governor Cuomo. And is the first time in our nations history that a President has used the Stafford Act to declare a major disaster in response to a public health crisis. Never happened before. Im considering other areas where we may or may not be doing that. And Im working very closely with Gavin Newsom, Governor of California, and others we may be doing the same thing, depending on their needs, depending on what theyre asking for.Its been unprecedented action in New York, and weve had a tremendous federal response all over the country. And I want to thank all the people in the federal government and obviously in the state governments and local governments. We are working hard. Everybody is working hard. And the people standing alongside of me are working very hard, that I can tell you.Weve also reached agreements with Canada and Mexico on new travel rules at our northern and southern borders to halt the entry of the Chinese virus while continuing trade and commerce. And weve had very good talks, Ive  with Prime Minister Trudeau, and today, this morning, with President Lpez Obrador. And we talked about joint measures that were taken to prevent the spread of the virus in our countries and to temporarily suspend nonessential travel. We had a great conversation this morning  the President of Mexico. And our close cooperation with Mexico and Canada will keep our people healthy, keep their people healthy, keep everybody safe.Yesterday, I had a call with 12,000 small businesses  representatives of these businesses. Thats the engine of our country. People dont realize that. You know, you read all about the big ones, but the  these small businesses, when you add them up together, are really the engine  economic engine of our country. And I assured them that my administration is doing everything within its very considerable  considerable power, frankly, to support them and their employees.Nobody has ever done what weve done. Likewise, I had calls during the week with all sorts of representatives and systems, like the hospital system. We spoke to many of the hospital systems throughout the country  nurses and doctors, representatives representing hundreds of thousands of nurses and doctors airlines and cruise ship companies.The business roundtable, which was fully attended and its all of the top CEOs of our country and beyond, frankly  the businessmen of  really, these a world  worldstyled businessmen. These are businessmen that control the biggest companies in the world. Many of them have taken hits, and many of them are just, you know, going forward. They  their businesses have been  have been great. Some have been very badly affected, some havent been affected at all, and, frankly, some are doing very well. They continue to do very well.Its  Walmart, as an example, has been really helpful to us. Doug McMillon, the head of Walmart  really helpful to us. And I guess  I assume theyre doing pretty well because people are certainly buying  buying more than even a clip at Christmas, by substantial numbers. Pretty amazing. But theyre doing incredibly. They put on tremendous extra staff. You dont have empty shelves. A lot of things have happened that are very good.Restaurants, fast food executives, grocery stores, all retailers  literally, all of them  in groups.And we spoke with the G7 leaders at length, as you know. You probably know about that.Spoke to many of the governors. Spoke almost all of the governors at conference calls and many of the governors individually.And, very importantly, the religious leaders. We had a great conversation yesterday  the Vice President and myself  with the religious leaders of  of our country. Many of the religious leaders. And weve had a number of them, during the course of the last two weeks, actually. But yesterday, we had a very, very significant call with the religious leaders of our country.I signed legislation providing American workers with paid sick leave and paid family medical leave at no cost to employers and free testing for those who need it. The testing is going very well and the Admiral will speak to that, along with Tony.Were working quickly to pass additional legislation that will provide massive relief to small businesses and affected industries and give direct payments to our great workers and hardworking American families. Theres never been anything like were doing on the Hill right now. Theyre negotiating  Mitch McConnell, Chuck Schumer. Theyre all up there  Kevin McCarthy and Nancy Pelosi. Theyre all negotiating and everybody is working hard and they want to get to a solution thats the right solution. I think were getting very close.Weve also announced that weve moved Tax Day from April 15 to July 15, which is a big deal, giving businesses and individuals extra time to file and pay without interest or penalty. So weve moved the date way back. And so itll be July 15, instead of your traditional April 15. And, very importantly, you will have a lot of time, but youre not going to have interest penalties or any kind of penalties by filing at that later date.HUD announced that foreclosures and evictions are suspended for singlefamily homeowners with FHAinsured mortgages for the next 60 days. And our great head of HUD, whos with us today, Ben Carson, is going to say a few words in a moment.The Department of Education will not enforce standardized testing  which is another big deal  requirements for students in elementary through high school for the current school year. Not fair to do that, so we are waiving that. I would imagine its probably the first time ever that has been waived, but I think its only fair to the students and to the parents of the students.It is also waiving interest and other things that were discussing right now on federally held student loans and directed that borrowers be allowed to suspend their student loan payments without penalty for at least 60 days. And well be talking about student loans going to help the students. Theyre under a great burden right now, so we will be talking about that further. But were  were waiving, during this 60day period, various elements  very important elements  on student loans. Big subject.I signed an executive order invoking the Defense Production Act, as you all know, giving us powerful new authorities to help states, cities, and hospitals procure needed supplies. Theres been a clear call to action to the private sector, and the call is made right here. Its been really pretty amazing whats happened with the private sector  they are really in sixth gear, I think  which has responded in full force, helping to produce and supply muchneeded masks, swabs, sanitizers, ventilators, and everything else. Theres a move on thats incredible right now.And, by way of example, Hanes  everybody knows Hanes great company, great consumer cotton products company  is retrofitting its manufacturing capabilities in large sections of their plants to produce masks. And theyre in that process right now.And, at my direction, the FDA is taking rapid steps to make these items available for medical use right now. Most excitingly to me is what the FDA has done in order to get, possibly, a very successful number  its not just one or two  number of therapeutics medicines that can help  help people that are already sick, help people not get sick. And, obviously, you know about the vaccine. And Tony will discuss that a little bit later, but the vaccine is moving along.But this is something that, right now  for right now, this is what we really  its incredible. And what the FDA has done and Dr. Stephen Hahn, who is highly respected  came as a  just a highly respected man. Hes been fantastic. Hes only been here for a couple of months and hes  hes gotten thrown into the swim of it and hes really standing up.But the FDA has really moved mountains. I said it this morning Theyve moved mountains to get approvals on things that  that maybe work. Well find out very soon. It wont take long.An example of the Pernod Ricard, which is  this is really an example where were repurposing alcohol. They went out and repurposed their alcohol production capabilities in Arkansas, Kentucky, Texas, and West Virginia to make hand sanitizer. Thats a big difference. And theyve been unbelievable. They really  Pernod Ricard. Their first delivery will be on Tuesday. Its going to go to various states. Theyre going to start, I think, in New York and theyre going to work their way around. Theyre making a tremendous amount of hand sanitizer  at a very high level too, by the way.Weve activated the National Response Coordination Center to Level 1. Thats your highest level. This is the nerve center of all of our government response to crisis and its coordinating very closely with our nations governors. Our nations governors  many of you were at the call yesterday with the governors and I think you can see the relationship. And weve had numerous calls with governors, by the way, but the relationships are pretty amazing. They like  theyre loving what were doing and the coordination between the federal government and the governors, states, and even local has been pretty incredible.FEMA Administrator Pete Gaynor, who is with us, will soon be providing you with an update on the Centers operations. And FEMA has been incredible. We got them involved last week  very much involved  and now theyre involved nationwide. Weve dramatically expanded telehealth so Americans can see a doctor without leaving home  something which more and more people are using and now theyre really using it. And now the ones that are using it are loving it. And I think were going to change the way our country functions, medically and probably in other ways, because of whats going on right now. This will reduce the chance of infection and preserve hospital capacity. So it solves a lot of problems.Every American has a role to play in defending our nation from this invisible, horrible enemy. It really is  its an invisible enemy. And we will be successful  very successful  hopefully very much sooner than people would even think.So we say, Stay at home and save lives. This is a time of shared national sacrifice, but its also a time to treasure our loved ones and to take stock of what is most important our faith, our families, our neighbors, and our great country. And I want to thank all of the incredible people of our country, the citizens of our country that  what youve done and the way youre responding has just been very special  something that we will never forget, that the history books will never forget.And were going to have a great victory. Were going to be celebrating a great victory in the nottoodistant future. And I just want to thank everybody.And now Ill introduce our Vice President, Mike Pence, whos led the Task Force. And I will tell you this He has not slept much. Maybe a tiny bit, maybe a little bit, but not much. And hes done an incredible job.Mike, thank you. Please.THE VICE PRESIDENT Good afternoon, all. And thank you, Mr. President. The White House Coronavirus Task Force met today. We briefed the President on our latest recommendations. We continue, at the Presidents direction, to lead not a wholeofgovernment approach, but a wholeofAmerica approach.You just heard the President describe one inspiring story after another of the way the American people are responding, the way American businesses are responding, and religious communities across this country. The American people are coming together. Theyre responding with common sense, compassion, and generosity.People are heeding the advice of state and local authorities, and tens of millions of Americans are putting into practice the 15 Days to Slow the Spread. We are  we are officially, Mr. President, 6 days into our 15 days. And as we look all across this country, while we  we strongly support the decisions that governors in states where we have significant outbreak have taken, we encourage every American to listen to those state and local authorities.For every American, this is what you can do to make a difference over the next week and a few days to protect your health, protect your familys health, but most especially slow the spread and the potential for the coronavirus to impact the most vulnerable.As the President said, weve been  weve almost been overwhelmed at the outpouring of support from American businesses. The President spoke yesterday to thousands of small businesses. We spoke to manufacturers yesterday. And, in fact, as President indicated, the FDA, in record time, just approved one manufacturer that will be producing millions of surgical masks in a matter of weeks for the American people.The pastors we spoke to, we  we want to thank all the religious leaders from every community of faith in the country making the hard choice to suspend services, to have online services, even while those ministries are continuing to support food banks and come alongside the most vulnerable. And, of course, the chorus of prayers that is coming up from communities of faith around the country is making the difference that it always has in the life of this nation.One thing the President and I promised was to remind people that on the weekends that youre not in the pews, its still a good  its still a good idea to  if you can, to go ahead and make that donation. Because all the ministries are continuing to play a vital role in our communities and we encourage your continued support.The President and I are grateful that the American people are listening to state and local authorities and putting into practice all of  all of the recommendations in the Presidents coronavirus guidelines.And, as you will hear in just a few moments from Admiral Giroir, testing is expanding rapidly across the United States of America. Staterun drivethroughs are expanding across the country. And, as you will hear detailed this morning, now more than 195,000 Americans and more who have been symptomatic have been tested. That number does not include county hospitals or healthcare labs around the nation, some 15,000 in number.And among the number of the more than 195,000 that have been tested, its important to remember that only 19,343, at this moment, have tested positive for the coronavirus. We want to  we continue to urge state and local health authorities to contact FEMA for all the latest developments and innovations in testing. But we want to remind Americans, as Dr. Fauci will emphasize in a moment If you dont have symptoms, dont do a test. It is another way that the American people can make sure that we are preserving the resources that our healthcare workers need to minister and to support those who are dealing with the coronavirus and other illnesses.In a moment, Pete Gaynor will detail the efforts at FEMA. Since the Presidents National Emergency Declaration, we have FEMA in the lead stood up the National Response Coordination Center as the President said and we are working closely, literally hour by hour, through FEMA, processing requests from states most impacted, like New York, Washington State, and California, and well continue to work very, very closely with those states through their very traditional means of federal emergency management at FEMA.Secretary Carson will describe decisive actions the President alluded to, to bring foreclosure relief to Americans. And, on the subject of supplies, in a moment, you will hear of not only the progress that were making on testing, but on Monday, well be detailing for the American people the progress that we are making on the Presidents strategy of procuring more personal protective equipment and medical supplies, allocating them through the system at FEMA, and continuing to urge conservation by Americans.In fact, Im pleased to report to the President today that HHS just placed a  an order for hundreds of millions of N95 masks that will be being made available to healthcare providers across the country.On behalf of the President, we do renew our call for Americans to postpone elective medical procedures, including dental services. And remember, this is another way that youre going to make sure that medical supplies are available, because, by postponing elective medical procedures, youre freeing up medical supplies for those dealing with the coronavirus.As the President mentioned, our team is on Capitol Hill as we speak, working with members of Congress in both political parties. Theyre making progress, by all accounts, on a bipartisan bill. They worked late into the night last night and started early this morning, and we are working to pass that legislation on Monday in both the House and the Senate.Now, on a personal note, many of you may have been made aware that a member of my staff has tested positive for the coronavirus. We learned of that late yesterday. I am pleased to report that he is doing well. He had mild, coldlike symptoms for about a day and a half has not been to the White House since Monday.Neither the President nor I had direct contact with that staff person. We worked immediately with the White House physician and the CDC. Weve done all contact tracing. And while the White House doctor has indicated that he has no reason to believe that I was exposed and no need to be tested, given the unique position that I have as Vice President and as the leader of the White House Coronavirus Task Force, both I and my wife will be tested for the coronavirus later this afternoon.Let me say again how grateful the President and I are that every American has acted on the Presidents coronavirus guidelines. We are 6 days into 15 days that, but as Dr. Fauci may well reflect in a moment, its an opportunity for us here on the footholds of this epidemic curve in our country to literally lower the impact in our nation and save lives. Every American can do their part to slow the spread. And we encourage you each to continue to do that.As the President says often Remember were all in this together. And also remember that, for most Americans, the risk of serious illness from the coronavirus remains low. The reason we want to put into practice the Presidents coronavirus guidelines is because no American would want to inadvertently expose someone who is vulnerable  a senior with a serious underlying health condition  to the coronavirus with a potential threat.I did hear one story this morning, Mr. President, about a senior named Geneva Wood. She actually is at the Life Care Center in Kirkland, Washington. She is not only a grandmother, she is a great, great grandmother. Ninety years young, and she tested positive for the coronavirus on March 6th. But by all accounts, shes doing well and she wanted America to know there is hope. And her strength and her enthusiasm is truly an inspiration to the nation.As the President said many times, were going to get through this and come out stronger than ever before. And well get through this as Americans, together.Thank you, Mr. President.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Thank you, Mike.Admiral, please.ADMIRAL GIROIR Thank you, Mr. President and Mr. Vice President.As I told you earlier last week, we are in the process and are effectively transitioning to largescale testing by leveraging all the components of the American healthcare system. When we started, it was CDC only, then it was the state public health laboratories. Now were transitioning into the mainstream of American testing with many of the companies that the President invited in the Rose Garden just a week ago.So, currently, 91 public health laboratories, state public health laboratories are up and running in 50 states, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico.This is our curve, and I want to be very clear about this  that this only accounts for CDC state public health laboratories and the laboratories that are members of the American Clinical Laboratory Association. These are the main reference laboratories LabCorp, Quest, Mayo, ARUP, BioReference Labs, and Sonic Healthcare. It does not account for the well over 10,000  15,000 hospitalbased labs, many of which are doing testing, for whom we will get data this week to give you an overall rollup.As you can see, over 195,000 people in America have completed their testing. That means tests plus results. This does not count the people whose tests are in process. And, as you see, this curve is going  it will continue to rise dramatically over the next period of time.So, again, this is utilizing all the components of the great American healthcare system, the state and local public health laboratories, the hospital system, which is not represented here, and the main reference laboratories.Now, I do want to make it clear that, although testing is becoming more available, and Dr. Fauci will definitely emphasize this more, there are priorities for testing. And clearly, everyone across the country should understand that those hospitalized or in an ICU are our priority for testing Symptomatic health care workers, for obvious reasons, we want to make sure that they  their health is preserved and that they are not going to spread to those who may be seriously illsymptomatic people in longterm care facilities As the Vice President has highlighted and weve said many times, elderly in our society have a much higher mortality rate, much higher serious complication rate Symptomatic individuals over 65 Symptomatic individuals who have underlying conditions, like chronic heart disease or liver disease or other types of chronic diseases Patients in public health investigations. And there are local priorities around the country, particularly healthcare workers for testing.And Dr. Fauci is going to emphasize this about the types of people who may not need to be tested. Testing is going well, its ramping up, but we should still have priorities.Finally, I want to talk about the communitybased testing sites. I know theyre popular now because theres now an acronym, which Im sure the Vice President doesnt appreciate CBTS or CBT sites. We talked about these earlier in the week and I wanted to emphasize, again, that these are statemanaged and locally executed. The federal government is there to provide support, know how, blueprints on how to do this, but these are really springing up at dozens and dozens of sites all over the country, adapted to the local needs. Some are drivethroughs, some are walkup, some are geared to healthcare workers and emergency responders.So again, what we see in the upcoming week is this curve will continue to increase as testing becomes more widely available, as the great American healthcare industry continues to increase the availability of tests and the throughput of those tests.Thank you, sir.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much, Admiral. Dr. Fauci, please.DR. FAUCI Thank you very much, President, Mr. Vice President. What I want to do, just over the next minute or so, is maybe connect some of the dots of the things that youve heard today.First, the status of the dynamics of the  of the outbreak. I mean, you all know the numbers. Youve seen them. We have widespread infection, but to varying degrees throughout the country.So, for example, when you talk about the kinds of mitigation issues that we have put forth and have emphasized, just as I mentioned the other day, there are two dynamic forces that are going on at the same time. Youre having the natural course of an outbreak, trying to peak at a high level. And then you have the mitigation strategies, which are aimed at dampening that. Weve mentioned that multiple times.We often get asked How do you know youre having an effect? Because there are two things that are going on at the same time, they may be confounding. Well, I can tell you for sure, from a public health standpoint and experience with other outbreaks, we know we are clearly having an effect, but we cant quantitate it for you accurately now, because, looking forward, youll know what the impact of the rate of this steep inclines will be. So thats why were going to come back to you every day and keep you up to date about that.Getting  with regard to the disproportionate of the response, everyone  its right here. Ill get the  open up the Vice Presidents book, with his permission. This is baseline for everyone  in other words, throughout the country. But then there will be areas  and youve heard them Washington State, California, New York City  in which the dynamics of the outbreak are clearly different and much more robust, if you want to use that word. And thats the reason why were seeing the mitigation ratcheted up in that regard. And again, hopefully  and I have confidence it will happen  you will see an impact on that.Next, getting to testing. You saw the numbers were testing. Remember, there was always an issue with testing. I think were getting to the solution that everybody in the country is looking for.But I want to emphasize one thing that Admiral Giroir mentioned  is that not every single person in the United States needs to get tested. He gave you the priorities I dont want to repeat them. But let me tell you one of the unintended consequences of individuals who dont need to get tested that flood the desire to get tested. Currently  and I hope well be able to change it and make it much less reliable on PPEs  when you go in and get tested, you are consuming personal protective equipment  masks and gowns. Those are high priority for the healthcare workers who are taking care of people who have coronavirus disease.So what we dont want to do is to have a situation where we will  we do have disparities in availability of PPEs now and were working hard to correct that. But currently today, we want to make sure that the people who are taking care of people with coronavirus disease do not endanger themselves because they dont have the personal protective equipment.And then finally, one last thing  it was just mentioned. The Surgeon General has been pushing this Please put off, cancel elective medical and surgical procedures. You dont want to not ever do them, but, for the time being, dont do them because they also not only consume personal protective equipment, they may also consume some of the things like ventilators that you might need. So lets pull in this together, and we will get through it, I promise you.Thank you.THE PRESIDENT Thank you, Tony, very much. Please.ADMINISTRATOR GAYNOR Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President. FEMA is now leading the federal operation  or the federal response for all operations on behalf of the White House Coronavirus Task Force, who oversees this wholeofnation response.HHS will continue to provide their expert  matter expertise on health. Pursuant to the nationwide emergency declaration, FEMA, in coordination with HHS, is assisting state, local, tribal, territorial governments and other eligible entities with health and safety emergency protective measures on behalf of the American public.As of yesterday, 50 states, the District of Columbia, 5 territories, and 1 tribe are working directly with FEMA under the nationwide emergency declaration for COVID19. In just 24 hours, weve obligated 100 million to states, territories and tribes.A little bit about supplies It is of the utmost importance that requests for assistance, especially for critical supplies, get routed through proper channels as soon as possible. And we ask everyone to follow the normal procedures  the normal procedures FEMA uses in a natural disaster. Theres no different procedure for the COVID19 pandemic.But, remember, you can still order supplies from your regular vendors and buy it on the open market. Buy it where you can find it. We will reimburse you. If you buy medical supplies from foreign sources, it is reimbursable. Buy America does not apply to the Stafford Act, except for Washington D.C. and Puerto Rico.If you cant buy it on the open market, make a request to the FEMA system. Requests for assistance at the local and county level should first go to states  from states to the regional FEMA offices, and then from those offices right here in D.C., where the National Response Coordination Center is open and running.We are getting requests for mass PPE swab sets, test site supports, ventilators, hospitalcapacity assessments and many more. And we are in lockstep with HHS to answer these requests, but we will do whatever is necessary to get states, tribes, territories, and others, what they need.And then, finally, what we are doing here in Washington, D.C.  again, this is a wholeofgovernment response. Like all emergency responses, its most successful when it is locally executed, statemanaged, and federally supported. We cant say that enough.On Thursday, our federal partners fully integrated with our National Coordination  Response Coordination Center. And, additionally, all 10 FEMA regions across the country have been activated.The FEMA regional administrators will continue to coordinate closely with governors, state emergency managers, state public health officials to determine the type and level of support needed to respond to this dynamic threat. Thank you, sir.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much, Pete. Appreciate it.THE VICE PRESIDENT Ben?THE PRESIDENT Ben, please.SECRETARY CARSON Well, thank you, Mr. President and Mr. Vice President for your tireless leadership here. And I also want to thank the fellow Task Force members who have been working around the clock in a very patriotic way to serve their fellow Americans.You know, part of the American Dream is having a home. And sometimes people say, Well, what does housing have to do with health? It has everything to do with health, having a safe home. And that is the reason that the President has authorized the immediate cessation of foreclosure and eviction proceedings for American citizens, singlefamily forward mortgages, as well as reverse mortgages. And, as you know, FHFA has also decided to do the same thing for 60 days, and the CFPB is very happy with all of this as well.And its really all about helping our people, recognizing that theyre being severely impacted by the coronavirus. And weve also asked the various servicers of mortgage loans to exercise forbearance for anybody who is having difficulty. It is important, if youre having difficulty, to actually contact the people who have made the loan, who established the mortgage because it doesnt happen automatically. What does happen automatically is that we cover all 8.5 million people, in terms of the moratorium on foreclosures and evictions.We want also for the PHAs to protected. HUD does not have authority to mandate that evictions cant occur, but we are in contact with all the PHAs across the country, and are petitioning Congress for the power to be able to actually enforce that. But the fact of the matter is, most of the PHAs are run by people who actually care about other people, so we really havent seen much of a problem there. We havent seen much of a problem with forbearance and needing to try to force people to do it because they want to do it. People are stepping up and saying, What we can do to be helpful?As far as Housing Choice vouchers  Section 8  is concerned, the April vouchers will be sent out next week and May vouchers are already being worked on. And were also staying in contact with all the stakeholders, the advocates for lowincome housing, as well as other stakeholders to make sure that were doing things that are most helpful to them.And additionally, weve extended the deadlines for healthcare and multifamily financial reporting requirements. And thats for over 20,000 multifamily and healthcare borrowers until April the 30th. And that provides them with a lot more flexibility to deal with the issues that theyre dealing with.I also want to thank our FHA Commissioner Brian Montgomery as well as the FHFA Director, Mark Calabria and Kathy Kraninger, the Director of the CFPB, whove all worked tirelessly with us to make this happen.What were trying to do is bridge the gap, recognizing that its a lot easier for us to take these measures and for Congress to take the measures that theyre taking so that we dont destroy a very excellent system and have to start all over again.So for those who are worried about the money thats being spent, if you dont spend the money and deal with this now, its going to cost a whole lot more to try to build all this up again.And, as was mentioned by the President, theres been a sense of unity that we havent seen for a long time in this country, and lets hope and pray that that unity lasts far beyond this crisis.THE VICE PRESIDENT Well said.THE PRESIDENT Okay. Ben, thank you very much. A few questions, please.