James S. Brady Press Briefing Room1150 A.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. I had a very good telephone conversation  extremely good  with Senator Schumer a little while ago. Were working on various elements of the deal, and the Democrats are very much wanting something to happen, and the Republicans, likewise, are very much wanting something to happen. And I think it will.I spoke with  at length with Mitch McConnell. And theres tremendous spirit to get something done, so well see what happens. But my conversation was very good with Senator Schumer.I thank you all for joining us, and Id like to begin by providing an update on what we are doing to minimize the impact of the Chinese virus on our nations students.With many schools closed due to the virus, the Department of Education will not enforce standardized testing requirements, very importantly, for students in elementary through high school for the current year. Theyve been through a lot. Theyve been going back and forth schools open, schools not open. Its been all standardized testing. And, you know, its  were not going to be enforcing that, so I think you can let people know. I think probably a lot of the students will be extremely happy some probably not. The ones that work hard, maybe not. But its one of those things. Unfortunate  very unfortunate circumstance.Weve also temporarily waived all interest on federally held student loans. Theyll be very happy to hear that. And Ive instructed them to take that action immediately. And today, Secretary DeVos has directed federal lenders to allow borrowers to suspend their student loans and loan payments without penalty for at least the next 60 days. And if we need more, well extend that period of time. Borrowers should contact their lenders, but weve given them very strong instructions.So weve temporarily waived all interest on federally held student loans. Thats a big thing. Thats going to make a lot of students very happy. And we have more to come on student loans  more good news for the students  but well do that at a different time.This morning, the Treasury Department also announced that were moving Tax Day from April 15 to July 15. So were moving it out to July 15th so that people will have time and people will be able to  hopefully, by that time, well have people getting back to their lives. Families and businesses will have this extra time to file with no interest or penalties. Were getting rid of interest and penalties.However, if you have refunds or credits you would like to claim, you may still file. In other words, you can file early if you are owed money by the IRS. Other than that, were moving it all the way out to July 15th  no interest, no penalties. Your new date will be July 15.Today, our team will also provide an update on our continuing effort to prevent the transmission of virus across Americas borders. And I watched whats been happening in California with Governor Newsom and, this morning, with Governor Cuomo, and I applaud them. Theyre taking very strong, bold steps, and I applaud them. And were all working together. Were working very closely together, including those two governors.But I would say, based on the call  the media was there  I think we can say that, with respect to virtually every governor on that call, I think every governor  we had almost all of them, if not all of them  and I would say that you could see for yourselves that the level of respect and esprit de corps working together was extraordinary. There was nobody angry, nobody upset. Were able to help them, and thats what were all about. We want to help.Were doing things that a lot of people wouldnt be able to do. But the relationship with governors and states is, I think, very extraordinary, especially under the circumstances where this just came upon us.Were working with Canada and Mexico to prevent the spread of the virus across North America, very closely. You heard what we did yesterday with Canada. And Secretary of State Pompeo will be making a statement in a little while having to do with Mexico and the border. And Chad likewise  Chad Wolf will likewise be making a statement. This is a joint comprehensive effort in collaboration with our neighbors.The measure and all of those measures that were putting in place will protect the health of all three nations and reduce the incentive for a mass global migration that would badly deplete the healthcare resources needed for our people. And so we are working very closely with Mexico, very, very closely with Canada. The relationship has never been better. Were all working for the same  toward the same goal.Our nations top healthcare officials are extremely concerned about the grave public health consequences of mass uncontrolled crossborder movement. And that would be mostly  and even beyond  but mostly during this global pandemic.Every week, our border agents encounter thousands of unscreened, unvetted, and unauthorized entries from dozens of countries. And weve had this problem for decades. For decades. You know the story. But now its  with the national emergencies and all of the other things that weve declared, we can actually do something about it. Were taking a very strong hold of that. And we have before, but this is now at a level that nobody has ever approached.In normal times, these massive flows place a vast burden on our healthcare system, but during a global pandemic, they threaten to create a perfect storm that would spread the infection to our border agents, migrants, and to the public at large. Left unchecked, this would cripple our immigration system, overwhelm our healthcare system, and severely damage our national security. Were not going to let that happen.So we have a lot of information, and theyll be discussing that in a moment.To confront these public health degrees dangers, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has decided to exercise its authority under the Title 42 of the U.S. Code to give Customs and Border Protection the tools it needs to prevent the transmission of the virus coming through both the northern and the southern border. So were treating the borders equally  the northern border and the southern border. Its being treated  theyre both being treated equally. A lot of people say that theyre not treated equally. Well, they are.As we did with Canada, were also working with Mexico to implement new rules at our ports of entry to suspend nonessential travel. These new rules and procedures will not impede lawful trade and commerce. Furthermore, Mexico is taking action to secure our own southern border and suspend air travel from Europe. So were coordinating very closely the air travel going to Mexico and then trying to come into the United States.The actions were taking together with our North American partners will save countless lives.At the conclusion of my remarks, Secretary Azar, Secretary Pompeo, Secretary Wolf  were going to be also taking some questions with Tony and Deborah, who youve gotten to know very well  but theyll be discussing certain things, and I think youll find them of great interest. Were going to be providing tremendous amounts of detail over the coming days, but a lot of it will be provided right now if youd like to find out about it.This has been a week of resolute action, tremendous action. Tremendous relationships have developed with people that, frankly, didnt get along. People that didnt like each other, theyre now working together and maybe, even in some cases, learning about each other and liking each other. Its a nice thing.I invoked the Defense Production Act, and last night, we put it into gear. We moved the National Response Coordination Center to the highest level of activist sic. I mean, if you  if you take a look at what we did, the level of activation has been increased to a grade one level, which is the highest level.Were providing historic support to small businesses and to the states. The states need support. Normally they do this themselves, but because of the magnitude of it, the federal government has gotten very much involved in terms of getting the equipment they need. So were helping them. Its  its a responsibility they have, but we are helping the states a lot. Thats why the governors, I think in every case, have been impressed and very nice.We enacted legislation guaranteeing paid sick leave for workers at no cost to employers. And I think its very important. So they get paid sick leave at no cost to employers.Were accelerating the use of new drug treatments. Were advancing legislation to give direct payments to hardworking families. Throughout our country, Americans from all walks of life are rallying together to defeat the unseen enemy striking our nation. In times of struggle, we see the true greatness of the American character, and we are seeing that. A lot of people are talking about it.Were at 141 countries, from what theyre telling me, and some of those countries are really working in a unified manner. And theyre working very unified with us, almost  I could say a good  a good number of them.Doctors and nurses are working nonstop to heal the sick. Citizens and churches are delivering meals to the needy. Truckers are making the long haul to keep shelves stocked. Weve been dealing with the big stores and the big chains, Walmart  theyve been fantastic  and others. Theyve all been fantastic. Weve made it much easier for them to stock. In terms of travel and travel restrictions, were lifting restrictions so they can get their trucks on time.Youre seeing very few empty shelves, and yet the amount of volume that they are doing is unprecedented because people want to have what they have to have, what they feel they have to have. And theyre also buying in slightly smaller quantities, which is good  because were not going anywhere. Were going to be here. So I want to thank all of those very great companies for working so well.Americans from every walk of life are coming together. And thanks to the spirit of our people, we will win this war, and we are. Were winning and were going to win this war. America will triumph and America will rise higher than ever before. Well be stronger than ever before, and weve learned a lot. Weve learned a lot. Weve learned a lot about relying on other countries, and I can say that I think in both a very good and a very bad way. Some good things came out of it and some not so good things came out of it.So Id like to move now to invite our team to provide information on the new measures to prevent viral spread at our borders. And Ill start by asking Secretary of State Pompeo to speak. Hes doing a fantastic job. And like everyone else, hes been working very, very long and very, very hard. And hes doing the other more normal jobs of a great Secretary of State, but he got  he got tied into this like everybody else, and hes been really doing a fantastic job.Mike, please.SECRETARY POMPEO Thank you, Mr. President. Before I address the efforts that weve been engaged in to push back against the Chinese virus, I want to assure the American people that, as President Trump just said, your State Department, your entire national security team is staying focused on the other diplomatic challenges around the world. Those include reducing risk to America from Afghanistan, holding the Iranian regime accountable for its malign activity. And our counterterrorism efforts against ISIS remain a priority for our team.Our number one priority across those mission sets remains the protection of the American people. The President and our team are very focused on it.Ill take this moment, too, to thank my team, the State Department team, who is working long hours all around the world to take care of Americans who are stuck at places around the world. Ill talk about that more in just a minute. Youve all seen Dr. Birx with me. State Department officials are doing great work, but I want to  I want to give a shoutout to all of the State Department team, here in Washington and around the world, that are working overtime to help us push back against this pandemic.Under the Presidents leadership this week, weve taken two important steps. First, as President Trump announced on Wednesday, the United States and Canada jointly agreed to restrict all nonessential traffic across our border. This decision goes into effect tonight at midnight. The restrictions will be reviewed after 30 days, and they exclude traffic and movement across the border for work or other essential reasons. Were grateful to have such an outstanding friend to the north who is committed, as we are, to defeating this virus.I also want to announce today that the United States and Mexico have agreed to restrict nonessential travel across our shared border. Both our countries know the importance of working together to limit the spread of the virus to ensure that commerce that supports our economy continues to keep flowing. Here, too, the United States is glad to have a friend who is working side by side us in the fight. Secretary Wolf will talk a little bit more about the details of how were working alongside our partner in Mexico to keep our southern border safe and secure as well.On another note, yesterday the State Department issued a Level 4 global travel advisory. This means that all international travel from U.S. citizens should be avoided. In countries where commercial departure options remain available, U.S. citizens who reside in the United States should arrange for immediate return to the United States unless theyre prepared to remain abroad for an extended time. If you choose to travel internationally, your travel plans may well be severely disrupted.And finally, I want to talk about the disinformation that people are seeing both on Twitter and around the world  some of it coming from government, some of it coming from other individuals. I just urge everyone, as theyre seeing information  information that at one time suggested somehow this virus emanated from the United States Army, this information about lockdowns that are taking place Every American indeed, and people all around the world, should ensure that where they turn to for information is a reliable source and not a bad actor trying to create and flow information that they know is wrong.This is a tough fight. The American people are tougher. Our diplomatic teams are working around the clock to help them keep safe both home and abroad. And were showing, once again, the global leadership that America has always delivered. Its been great to see countries around the world rally behind what President Trump and our team are doing.Thank you.THE PRESIDENT Thank you, Mike. Thank you very much. And well take questions right after this.Chad Wolf, please.ACTING SECRETARY WOLF Well, let me start off by thanking the President and the Vice President for their continued leadership and commitment for protecting the American people during this crisis.Early on, the President, again, took unprecedented actions to restrict travel from areas affected with the coronavirus. And today, DHS has screened over 200,000 individuals coming back from those affected countries. This has been an immense undertaking but one that the men and women of DHS have successfully accomplished.Todays announcement is yet another example of the extraordinary steps the administration is taking to ensure the safety of the American public. Before I comment on the CDC order that Im sure Secretary Azar will later elaborate on, let me first address the progress as Secretary Pompeo and others have made with our Canadian and Mexican partners regarding crossborder travel.As we continue to evaluate commonsense measures that reduce risk and prevent further spread, it only makes sense that we have looked at the measures that our neighbors to the north and south are undertaking. And so weve been working closely with those partners since the earliest days of this virus and the outbreak. And again, as the President said earlier this week and Secretary Pompeo, weve reached an agreement  an agreement with both Canada and Mexico to limit nonessential travel across our land borders.Let me be clear that neither of these agreements with Canada or Mexico applies to lawful trade or commerce. Essential commercial activities will not be impacted. We will continue to maintain a strong and secure economic supply chain across our borders.A few examples of essential travel include but certainly are not limited to individuals traveling for medical purposes, to attend educational institutions, for emergency response, public health services, and individuals engaged in lawful crossborder trade. As the Secretary said, the agreements with both Canada and Mexico will go into effect on Saturday, March 21st.Furthermore, were also working collaboratively with Canada and Mexico to take decisive joint action regarding individuals seeking entry between our ports of entry. The CDC order directs the Department to suspend the introduction of all individuals seeking to enter the U.S. without proper travel documentation. Thats for both the northern and southern border.The CDC Director has determined that the introduction and spread of the coronavirus and the Departments Border Patrol stations and detention facilities presents a serious danger to migrants, our frontline agents and officers, and the American people.So its important to note that the Department currently apprehends foreign nationals from over 120 different countries around the world  the vast majority of those having coronavirus cases. Many of these individuals arrive with little or no identity, travel, or medical documentation, making public health risk determinations all but impossible.Its also important to note that the outbreak on our southern border would likely increase the strain on health systems in our border communities, taking away important and lifesaving resources from American citizens.Tonight  again, at midnight  we will execute the CDC order by immediately returning individuals arriving without documentation to Canada, Mexico, as well as a number of other countries without delay. So, again, CBP is positioned to execute these measures as we continue to keep our borders secure and safe.Before I conclude, let me just wrap up by thanking the brave men and women of DHS, specifically CBP, and across the government for the work that they do day in and day out to keep the American people safe from the coronavirus. The Department has a number of frontline officers that have been  have tested positive, as well as the others who are selfquarantining. And I am doing everything that I can to protect these patriots as they continue to defend our homeland during this crisis.Thank you.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much, Chad. Really good. Thank you. Please, Secretary?SECRETARY AZAR Todays announcement is just the latest in a long line of bold, decisive actions the President has taken to protect Americans from the coronavirus spreading across our borders.In January, within two weeks of Chinas notifying WHO about the virus and with only 45 cases in China, we began screening travelers from Wuhan. Then, over time, as the outbreak evolved, the President restricted travel from China, Iran, and Europe. Our health experts say that these measures have been truly effective at slowing the viruss spread to our shores.Just think about this Italy and the United States both saw their first travelrelated case of coronavirus around the exact same time, the last week of January. And yet, we have had precious time to continue our work around vaccines, therapeutics, and other preparations, while Italy has tragically been overwhelmed with critical patients for several weeks now.The President today is taking action to slow the spread of infectious disease via our border. Under Section 362 of the Public Health Service Act, the CDC is suspending the entry of certain persons into the United States because of the public health threat that their entry into the United States represents.This order applies to persons coming from Mexico and Canada who are seeking to enter the country illegally and who would normally be held in a congregate setting like a Customs and Border Protection station. It does not apply to U.S. citizens or lawful permanent residents.During this pandemic, a number of health challenges arise when illegal immigrants arrive at our northern and southern borders and are taken into immigration custody. Were talking about significant numbers of illegal immigrants. From this past October through February, DHS has processed more than 21,000 inadmissible aliens at the northern border and more than 151,000 inadmissible aliens at the southern border.CBP facilities were never designed to hold large numbers of people and to protect agents and migrants from infection during a pandemic, nor to treat them for a novel virus if large numbers are infected. When held at border facilities, these migrants risk spreading the virus to other migrants, to CBP agents and border healthcare workers, and even the United States population as a whole. In such circumstances, the kind of social distancing measures the CDC and the President have recommended are simply not possible.On top of that, any resources that we are using to reduce the risk of infection among CBP agents, healthcare workers, and migrants in these facilities are drawing on American  an American healthcare system that is already fighting the coronavirus pandemic.Thats why the President and his administration are taking these important steps to keep Americans and our immigration system safe from these health risks as part of our wholeofgovernment approach to combatting the coronavirus.Thank you, Mr. President, for the work that youve been doing throughout this crisis to slow the spread of the coronavirus and to keep our country safe.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Thank you. If I could ask Tony or Deb, please.DR. BIRX Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. So we continue to review the data very carefully from around the globe, as I know many of you are. We continue to see signs that, again, individuals under 20  19 and under  may have severe disease, but majority and all have recovered to date. We still see that same trend.And, frankly, from Italy, were seeing another concerning trend that the mortality in males seems to be twice in every age group of females. This should alert all of us to continue our vigilance to protect our Americans that are in nursing homes.This requires all of the community. And when you see the sacrifices that many Americans have made  the sacrifices that the service industry has made to close their restaurants, close their bars, and so that the spread is discontinued  and then you really understand how all of Americans must make the same sacrifice.We continue to ask you to follow the presidential guidelines of no groups coming together of more than 10 that, if anyone in the household is sick, that everyone quarantines in the household together and that we continue to focus on those who have the most vulnerability to this illness.Now, to the moms and dads out there that have children with immunodeficiencies or other medical conditions We dont know the level of risk. And I know you will also protect them in the same way. There just is not enough numbers at this time to really tell them if theyre at additional risk or not in the same way that adults are.I dont have any new data. I can see the look on your face as saying, Is she seeing something new? I dont have any new data, but I think its important for us to be as honest with the American people as we can. And when we dont have data, be very clear that we dont know.Finally, no one is immune. I sometimes hear people on radio or others talking about, Im immune to the virus. We dont know if the contagion levels are difference in age groups, but we know its highly contagious to everyone.Do not interpret mild or moderate disease as lack of contagion, or that youre immune. You just happen to have a better immune system and the ability to fight the virus in a way that maybe older people or people with existing medical conditions cant.And thats why its very important at this moment, that all of you carry that message about the sacrifices that many have made, particularly our service providers and our frontline healthcare workers. They are making that sacrifice every day so that every American can move through this well. But we need every American following the presidential guidelines.Thank you.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Tony, please.DR. FAUCI Thank you very much, Mr. President. I just want to underscore a couple of things that Ive said a few times to this group. You may recall that just a week ago or so I said the two pillars, the two elements of our capability to contain the infection and the surge of infections in this country rely on two things keeping infections from coming from without in. Weve been very successful in doing that with China and with Europe. Now we have the northern and southern border issues. Theres a fundamental public health reason for doing that, because we cannot be preventing people from coming in from one area when they can actually go into the other. So thats an important reason. Understand that theres a public health reason for doing that.The second thing  and I think its really important  is what happened in New York today, where Governor Cuomo mentioned about an hour ago some rather strong issues that have been addressed with his recommendations  not recommendations essentially, orders.Now, we have a group of recommendations and guidelines that are applicable to the entire country. You know them weve been over them. Yet there are places, regions, states, cities in this country that are being stressed much, much more than the country as a whole. Clearly, one of them was Washington another one was California. Governor Newsom made some very important, difficult decisions. Today, Governor Cuomo did the same thing. And I want to say I strongly support what hes doing.And one thing, as a New Yorker myself  for those of you who havent figured out from my accent that Im from New York  as a New Yorker, I know what New Yorkers can do. Were tough. I was in New York City on September 11, 2001, and I know what the New Yorkers can do. So please cooperate with your governor, cooperate with your mayor. Its very important.Thank you.THE PRESIDENT Thank you, Tony. Mike?THE VICE PRESIDENT Thats great. Thank you, Mr. President. The White House Coronavirus Task Force met this morning and we continue, at the Presidents direction, to bring the full resources, not just of the federal government, but in full partnership with our state governments, businesses around America, and a partnership with the American people to respond to the threat of the coronavirus.And I know I can speak on behalf of the President with confidence when I say how inspired we are by the way the American people and American businesses are coming together to help defeat this virus in our country. Millions of Americans are putting into practice the Presidents 15day guidelines, and we encourage everyone, even those that are not in areas with significant outbreak, to review these guidelines over the next week and more, and put them into practice. And youll continue to do your part.Later today, well be talking with manufacturers around the country. And the President I continue to be inspired by the way American industry is stepping forward. We have businesses around the country that are literally volunteering to retrofit plants to help us meet the needs of our healthcare workers and our healthcare system in confronting the coronavirus.As the President mentioned yesterday, following his decision to put FEMA in the lead  the emergency declaration  we actually met with all the nations governors from the FEMA National Response Coordination Center. The President and I, our entire team at the federal level, couldnt be more grateful for the efforts of all of our governors in implementing the guidance that is being issued not only from our task force, but also in taking strong measures in their own communities to protect their citizens.We want to urge every American to heed your local authorities. Listen to their guidance. And also do your part to slow the spread.We reiterated to all of the governors that the President, by putting FEMA in the lead, will continue to implement a plan that is locally executed, state managed, and federally supported that puts the health of America first.We have received a report today, as the President mentioned, on our legislative team on Capitol Hill. Were working with Republicans and Democrats at this very hour to pass an economic recovery package that the President described. And we hope to see the Congress act on that early next week.On the subject of supplies, we continue to make steady progress on testing. Thanks to the Presidents involvement of commercial labs, the public and private partnership, more and more Americans are being tested every single day.And tomorrow, Admiral Giroir and FEMA will update the American public on the status of testing and our support of statebased testing efforts that are literally expanding by the hour.On the subject of medical supplies, we continue, at the Presidents direction, to pursue every means to expand the supply of personal protective equipment for the extraordinary and courageous healthcare workers that are ministering to the needs of people impacted by the coronavirus. We have a policy of procuring, allocating, as well as conserving the resources that we have in our system.And now that the President worked with the Congress to make industrial masks fully available for hospitals to be able to purchase, to be able to use as protective equipment, were more encouraged than ever about the availability of those important N95 masks to our healthcare facilities.And over this weekend, well be announcing a major procurement from the federal government of N95 masks, as well.Were also encouraged that were finding new alternatives to increase the supply of ventilators. Weve mentioned that we have a federal stockpile, some 20,000 ventilators on standby, but that doesnt count the tens of thousands of ventilators that are in our healthcare system around the country.But the President has challenged us to work to free up other ventilators from other sources around the country. And there are two different ways that were doing that. Number one, in our recent discussion with anesthesiologists, weve literally identified tens of thousands of existing ventilators that can be retrofitted and converted to be ventilators for people struggling with the coronavirus.But also, on the Presidents behalf and on behalf of all of our task force, we want to continue to urge every American and every American hospital and healthcare facility to postpone any elective medical procedures. This will free up bed space, free up hospital capacity for people that are struggling with the coronavirus, and it will also free up equipment that our healthcare workers need.It is inspiring that we continue to receive reports that businesses around America are donating N95 masks to their local hospitals. Businesses large and small are donating hundreds, in some cases millions, of N95 masks. And I know  I know how grateful the President is and we all are.And let me close by saying, as all of our experts have said many times, while the threat of serious illness to the average American from the coronavirus remains low, every American can do your part to reduce the burden on your health, on your family, the burden on our healthcare system and especially the threat to the most vulnerable among us by putting into practice the Presidents 15 Days to Slow the Spread.And as the President said at the outset of his remarks, I know that millions of Americans are doing that just now. And the greatness of the American character is shining forth.THE PRESIDENT Thank you, Mike. Thank you very much.Okay, thank you. Go ahead. Kaitlan.