James S. Brady Press Briefing Room1131 A.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. I think this is going to be a very important conference and Ill get to that toward the middle, but I have a few things to report. And I want to thank you all for being here.And I have to say, I think with social distancing that the media has been much nicer. I dont know what it is  all these empty  these inbetween chairs. We probably shouldnt have anybody sitting behind you either. You know, you should probably go back. But I love it. Its so much nicer. But I shouldnt say that because youll get me now.Thank you all for being here. And we continue our relentless effort to defeat the Chinese virus. Before I begin, I want to start by announcing that today we are bringing home another American citizen. It was a big thing. Very big. Amer Fakhoury is on his way back to the United States after being imprisoned in Lebanon since September of 2019. Hes battling latestage cancer. Mr. Fakhoury will now be able to receive the muchneeded care and treatment in the United States. Weve been working very hard to get him freed and hes finally able to have his entire family at his side.So Im very grateful to the Lebanese government. They worked with us. And we are very proud of his family. They stood by him so strongly, and they are thrilled.The United States has no higher priority than the safety and wellbeing of our citizens. Weve gotten a tremendous number of hostages out, as you know. I think were 42and0. And Robert OBrien, as you know, was our chief negotiator for a large part of it. In fact, did so well that now we have him in a different position.So I want to thank and congratulate Robert and his team and I want to let everyone know that recovering Americans held captive and imprisoned abroad continues to be a top priority for my administration.We have one young gentleman, Austin Tice, and were working very hard with Syria to get him out. We hope the Syrian government will do that. We are counting on them to do that. Weve written a letter just recently, but hes been there for a long time and was captured long ago. Austin Tice. His mother is probably watching and shes a great lady. And were doing the best we can. So, Syria, please work with us. And we would appreciate you letting him out.If you think about what weve done, weve gotten rid of the ISIS caliphate in Syria. Weve done a lot for Syria. We have to see if theyre going to do this. So, it would be very much appreciated if they would let Austin Tice out immediately.As you know, my administration is working every day to protect American people and the American economy from the virus. Yesterday, I signed into law a critical support for American workers, families, and small businesses. It was a big thing. Were providing sick leave and family medical leave to those affected by the virus and more help is on the way as we speak.Our entire team, headed by Secretary Mnuchin, is on the Hill. Were working with Democrats and Republicans and theres a lot of goodwill going on. This was something that happened that was, some people would say, an act of God. I dont view it as an act of God I would view it as is something that just surprised the whole world. And if people would have known about it, it could have stopped  been stopped in place. It could have been stopped right where it came from  China  if we would have known about it, if they would have known about it.But now the whole world, almost, is inflicted with this horrible  with this horrible virus and its too bad. Its too bad because we never had an economy as good as the economy we had just a few weeks ago.But well be back and I actually think well be back stronger than ever before because we learned a lot during this period of time.I also just invoked the Defense Production Act to help facilitate distribution of essential supplies if necessary. Were working with Congress to provide major additional relief to the workers, small businesses, and the hardesthit industries. We want to make sure that everybody is able to continue on so that when we recover, all of these companies and these great businesses  both very, very small and very, very large  are not going to be broken up and youd have to put them back together. That would take a long time.Because we really believe in  I believe in the V curve. I believe its going to go. When this is  when this is defeated  this hidden scourge is defeated  I think were going to go up very rapidly  our economy  and get back to where it was and beyond.Today, I want to share with you exciting progress that the FDA is making with the private sector as we slash red tape like nobody has ever done it before. Somebody was on yesterday, on one of the networks, and said that theres never been a President even close thats been able to do what Ive done in slashing all of the red tape and everything to get very important things to the market  medical.So we slashed red tape to develop vaccines and therapies as fast as it can possibly be done  long before anybody else was even thinking about doing this. And, as you know, earlier this week, we began the first clinical trial of a vaccine candidate for the virus, and that was launched in record time. It was just a few weeks. And that would have taken years to do, not so long ago.As we race to develop a vaccine, were also pursuing antiviral therapies. And thats what, really, were going to be talking to you about today. Thats the purpose of being up here today. And, to me, thats even more important. The vaccine, by its nature, you have to have long tests because you have to make sure what goes into somebodys body is not going to do destruction, do bad things. So you need long tests.And theyre doing great with the vaccines, but its still a long process. But the therapies are something we can move on much faster, potentially, and the treatments that will be able to reduce the severity or duration of the symptoms  to make people better. Essentially, were looking at things to make people better or, at the very earliest stages, they wouldnt even know they had it. And thats where I believe its going to work even the best.The FDA Commissioner  Stephen Hahn, who is with us  hes fantastic. And he has been working 24 hours a day. Hes been  hes worked like, probably as hard or harder than anybody in this  in the group, other than maybe Mike Pence or me. And what the FDA is doing is incredible. Theyve done things in times that were not even thinkable and Ive directed the FDA to eliminate outdated rules and bureaucracy so this work can proceed rapidly, quickly, and, I mean, fast.And we have to remove every barrier. There are a lot of barriers that were unnecessary. And theyve done that to get the rapid deployment of safe, effective treatments. And we think we have some good answers. Well find out very, very soon.Clinical trials are already underway for many new therapies and were working on scaling these to allow many more Americans to access different drugs that have shown really good promise. Weve had some un  really good promise. We will do so in a way that lets us continue to collect good data, to know which medicines are safe and which medicines are working the best. We have a couple that were  were in really good shape on. And thats for immediate delivery  immediate  like as fast as we can get it.The FDA has also approved compassionate use for a significant number of patients. You know what that means. Were also reviewing drugs that are approved abroad or drugs approved here for other uses.And, you know, one of the things that Im most proud of that I got was Right to Try. Thats where somebody whos ill, somebody whos very sick  terminally ill, usually. In past administrations  we signed this a year and a half ago  you wouldnt be able to even think about getting any of the drugs that may be showing great promise. Now  and theyve been trying for many decades to get this approved and it sounds simple, but its not because theres liability involved and lots of other things. And I was able to get it approved, working with Congress. Right to Try.This is beyond Right to Try. What were talking about today is beyond Right to Try. Right to Try has been, by the way, a tremendous success. People are living now that had no chance of living, where we take treatments that would  things that  that would have to go through years of a process. And if somebody was terminally ill  and I would say, Why wouldnt they be able to try this? Theyd go to Asia, theyd go to Europe, theyd go all over the world to try and find something. Or some people, if they had no money, would go home to die. Theyd go home to die they had no hope.Right to Try has been an incredible success. But this is beyond Right to Try. If treatments known to be safe in Europe, Japan, or other nations are effective against the virus, well use that information to protect the health and safety of American people. Nothing will stand in our way as we pursue any avenue to find what best works against this horrible virus.Now, a drug called chloroquine  and some people would add to it hydroxy. Hydroxychloroquine. So chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine. Now, this is a common malaria drug. It is also a drug used for strong arthritis. If somebody has pretty serious arthritis, also uses this in a somewhat different form. But it is known as a malaria drug, and its been around for a long time and its very powerful. But the nice part is, its been around for a long time, so we know that if it  if things dont go as planned, its not going to kill anybody.When you go with a brandnew drug, you dont know that thats going to happen. You have to see and you have to go  long test. But this has been used in different forms  very powerful drug  in different forms. And its shown very encouraging  very, very encouraging early results. And were going to be able to make that drug available almost immediately. And thats where the FDA has been so great. They  theyve gone through the approval process its been approved. And they did it  they took it down from many, many months to immediate. So were going to be able to make that drug available by prescription or states.I spoke with Governor Cuomo about it at great length last night, and he wants to be right on  on the  he wants to be first on line. And so I think thats a tremendous  theres tremendous promise, based on the results and other tests. Theres tremendous promise. And normally the FDA would take a long time to approve something like that, and its  it was approved very, very quickly and its now approved, by prescription. Individual states will handle it. They can handle it. Doctors will handle it. And I think its going to be  I think its going to be great.Then were quickly studying this drug, and while were continuing to study it  but the studying is going to be also done in  as its given out to large groups of people, perhaps in New York and other places. Well study it there.There are promising therapies produced by Gilead, and thats remdesivir. Remdesivir. And thats a drug used for other purposes thats been out and has had very good results for other purposes, but it seems to have a very good result, having to do with this virus. And that drug also has been approved or very close to approved, in that case, by the FDA.And I cant tell you how much we appreciate what the FDA  these people are incredible patriots. And the job that Stephen Hahn is doing  Dr. Hahn, who is one of the most respected doctors in the country, by the way, where we took him. I said, You sure you want to do this? Now, we didnt know that this was going to be in the playlist, what happened here, but he really has stepped up to the plate, wherever you are. Where is he? You really have.DR. HAHN Thank you, sir.THE PRESIDENT Id shake his hand, but Im not supposed to do that. Id get in a lot of trouble if I did that. But hes been fantastic. And I thank you, Doctor. Hes going to speak right after Im finished.So, Regeneron, again, and  is some  is a company thats done fantastically well, as I understand, with Ebola and some other things. Great company. And theyre looking at some very promising events also. So you have remdesivir and you have chloroquine and hydro  hydroxychloroquine. So those are two that are out now, essentially approved for prescribed use.And I think its going to be very exciting. I think it could be a game changer and maybe not. And maybe not. But I think it could be, based on what I see, it could be a game changer. Very powerful. Theyre very powerful.So I want every American to know that were doing everything we can. And these actions are important next steps. I mean, for the FDA to act the way they acted, with this kind of speed, is an incredible thing. Normally, they would say, Well, we could have it by next year or We could have it by  in two years from now. You understand. This is the way  normally, its like years and years and years. They had it immediately, based on the fact that its been used for other things  totally unrelated things.We believe these therapeutics and others under evaluation right now will be able to provide relief to many Americans. We really hope thats going to be. This could be a tremendous breakthrough. Tremendous breakthrough. And we will work toward a muchneeded vaccine in the future, as I said. And what were doing with the FDA is so exciting in so many other fields. So many things are happening. Its a very exciting time for  for medicine.And we appreciate that the American public has pulled together. Theyre really staying home. And I think theres tremendous spirit in this country right now, a spirit like a lot of people have not seen. People have not seen anything like it for a long time. And that means Democrat, Republican. Theyre pulling together. I hope everything is going good on the Hill. Maybe I shouldnt say this until I check out whats going on, because you never know. But  but I think theres a great spirit where the Democrats and the Republicans and everybody else, theyre getting together and theyre trying to get things done.But most importantly, the American public has been incredible. We took the best economy weve ever had and we said Stop. You cant work. You have to stay home. You know, theres never been a case like this. Normally, you pay a lot of money to get things going. Heres a case were paying a lot of money to stop things because we dont want people to be together so that this virus doesnt continue onward. So theres never been anything like this in history. Theres never been a nobody has ever seen anything like this.But were doing the right thing. We have to get rid  I mean, our big war is not a  its not a financial war. Its a war  its a medical war. And we have to win this war. Its very important.With that, Id like to just introduce Dr. Stephen Hahn. And he  again, Id like to send back with Stephen our thanks to all of the people working in the FDA who are fantastic, talented people. We appreciate it very much, everything youve done, especially the speed that you got these two elements, these two very important drugs passed. Thank you very much. Thank you, Stephen.DR. HAHN Thank you, Mr. President. I want to thank you for your leadership during this coronavirus outbreak, and thank you for the kind words about the FDA staff.We have 10,000 scientists, doctors, and others, and more than that working around the clock to aid the American people in this fight against the coronavirus. And those words are very much appreciated, sir. Thank you.THE PRESIDENT Thank you.DR. HAHN So, before the President nominated me and I was confirmed as Commissioner for Food and Drugs, I was a cancer doctor. And Ive sat across from countless number of patients and had to talk to them about their diagnosis and their treatment. And one thing that was really important is to provide hope. I have great hope for how were going to come out of this situation.Whats also important is not to provide false hope, but to provide hope. And, as a doctor, thats the way I come to this. Im speaking now to the American people as Commissioner of Food and Drugs, but that part of me has not left. Just look at the way the American people have responded to our calls for mitigation, for social distancing. The American people have great resiliency, and Im so incredibly proud of how the American people have responded.As the President mentioned, he asked us to be aggressive, to break down barriers to innovation, and to accelerate the development of lifesaving treatments. And were doing that at the FDA.The FDA is committed to continuing to provide regulatory flexibility and guidance, but let me make one thing clear FDAs responsibility to the American people is to ensure that products are safe and effective and that we are continuing to do that.Our folks  and theyre tremendous professionals  are working day and night to do this. You just cant even imagine how much theyre working to provide this support for the American people and I thank them.Since early January, long before the first domestic case, FDA began working in collaboration with CDC. I also want to note that we stood up an incident command group and had been focused on the coronavirus since the very beginning of this public health emergency. This is, in addition, an allofgovernment and allofAmerica approach and Ill describe what I mean by that, in terms of the development of therapeutics.An important part of that work is expanding the potential therapeutic options associated with coronavirus, and weve learned from our colleagues across the globe about this. But I want to focus on one thing I was a cancer researcher before all this, and one thing I know about this great country of ours is that we have unbelievable innovators. We have people who, every day, its their job to develop treatments for all sorts of diseases. We are incredibly blessed, as a country, to have this.And as is true in any illness, these great American innovators  academia, private sector  they have engaged us about the best possible treatment options. We are looking at everything thats coming across our desks as possible treatment options for coronavirus, and were extremely encouraged by the interest and the promise that weve seen from these great American innovators.Now, again, we need to look at it. We need the data, we need the information to make the absolute best decisions for the American people. But I want to assure you, we have over 17,000 people at FDA who are doing this every day.We need  we need to make sure that these  this sea of new treatments will get the right drug to the right patient at the right dosage at the right time. As an example, we may have the right drug, but it may not be in the appropriate dosage form right now, and that may do more harm than good. Those are the things that thats our job to look at. And thats why its really important we have these dedicated professionals looking at these aspects of therapeutic development.At the same time, were also working through different mechanisms to actually get drugs into the hands of providers and patients.The President mentioned this, but one of the mechanisms is called compassionate use. Let me just tell you about this. If theres an experimental drug thats potentially available, a doctor could ask for that drug to be used in a patient. We have criteria for that and very speedy approval for that. The important thing about compassionate use  and thats what the President meant, This is even beyond Right to Try  is that we get to collect the information about that. Because one of the things that Ill promise the American people is we will collect the data and then make the absolute right decisions based upon those data about the safety and efficacy of the treatments.We are working expeditiously, and we are working to make sure that these products are as safe and effective as they possibly can be. Let me tell you about a few things that were currently working on. And this is a plan that was developed with many of the people at this table, our infectious disease experts on the task force.In the short term, were looking at drugs that are already approved for other indications. So theyre already approved, as the President said, for other diseases. As an example, many Americans have read studies and heard media reports about this drug, chloroquine, which is an antimalarial drug. Its already approved, as the President said, for the treatment of malaria, as well as an arthritis condition. Thats a drug that the President has directed us to take a closer look at, as to whether an expandeduse approach to that could be done to actually see if that benefits patients. And again, we want to do that in the setting of a clinical trial  a large, pragmatic clinical trial  to actually gather that information and answer the question that needs to be answered and  asked and answered.Let me give you another example Theres a crossagency effort about something called convalescent plasma. This is a pretty exciting area. And again, this is something that we have given assistance to other countries with as this crisis has developed. So FDA has been working for some time on this. If youve been exposed to coronavirus and youre better and you dont have the virus in your blood, we could collect the blood. Now, this is a possible treatment this is not a proven treatment  just want to emphasize that. Collect the blood, concentrate that, and have the ability, once its pathogenfree  that is, virusfree  to be able to give that to other patients. And the immunoglobulins  the immune response  could potentially provide a benefit to patients.Its another thing that were looking at. Over the next couple weeks, well have more information on that. Were really pushing hard to try to accelerate that. Thats in the sort of more medium and shortterm. And thatll be a bridge to other therapies that will take us three to six months to develop.And this is a continuous process. There is no beginning and end to each of this. This is  you know, were pushing this through.The other great thing about the great innovators of America is some of them tell us its taken us years  years  to develop therapies. Theyre looking at pushing that to the months period of time. And were trying to provide them the reg  the regulatory flexibility, but, at same time, the scientific oversight to make sure that gets done in the best way possible for the American people.The President mentioned that there is a vaccine trial currently being performed. Its a phaseone trial, so its the earliest study that gets done. We expect that to take 12 months to get to completion  to actually a time where we could approve a vaccine. But thats  these are all things to bridge to the prevention part of this with a vaccine. Its exciting work. And the President is right This is record time for the development of a vaccine and impressive publicprivate partnership.The FDAs efforts to facilitate the development of these products are focused on ensuring timely access, while also meeting the agencys worldrespected gold standard, relying on strong data from clinical trials to determine if an experimental or an offtheshelf drug thats used for something else can safely and effectively treat patients. We want to assure the American people that FDA is all hands on deck, as the President mentioned  these efforts  and continue to work with interested sponsors to help expedite the work. We remain steadfast in helping to foster the development of safe and effective therapies for COVID19. Thank you.THE PRESIDENT Thank you, Doctor. Thank you very much.Mike? Talk about the masks, maybe.THE VICE PRESIDENT Thank you, Mr. President. The White House Coronavirus Task Force met this morning. And on this very first day of spring, we continue to make steady progress toward President Trumps objective not only to marshal all the resources of the federal government, every state government, every local health official, but also to harness the power of the American private sector. And activities over the last day reflect all of those priorities.Yesterday, the President spoke with Americas top physicians and nurses and garnered helpful insights about how we can best serve those who are serving Americans that are dealing with the coronavirus. We also had a productive call with over 5,000 state and local officials, explaining the federal governments approach and our strong and seamless partnership with all 50 states and the territories.Last night, as you heard, the President signed the Family First Coronavirus Response Act, which provides free coronavirus testing, paid sick leave, family leave for caregivers, and food assistance for the needy, among a broad range of benefits. And today, as the President indicated, we expect that the Senate will begin work on an economic relief package.Later today, the President and I will meet again in a teleconference with the nations governors. We will meet at the National Response Coordination Center at FEMA and outline President Trumps decision to have FEMA take the lead in our national coronavirus response. Our nations response, through FEMA, will be locally executed, state managed, and federally supported.On testing, we want the American people to know once again that testing is available in all 50 states and is becoming increasingly available literally every hour of the day. Because of the publicprivate partnership that the President initiated several weeks ago with major commercial labs, Im pleased to receive a report today that tens of thousands of tests are being performed every day. And with the passage of last nights legislations, state and private labs are now required by law to report all coronavirus testing directly to the CDC, which will give the American public and also give our researchers timely and important information.Its important for every American to remember that if you dont have symptoms, you dont need to get a test. We want to make sure that testing is available for people that are experiencing symptoms or have a genuine concern about having been exposed to someone with the coronavirus.Dr. Birx will address countylevel data, as well as the progress weve made on testing. And Americans can expect to see how an increased number of cases, as our new testing system comes online, should not be a cause of concern. Shell explain the importance of taking into account our new testing system as new data arrives over the next several days.On supplies, a priority the President has given to our task force We continue to work with healthcare providers, businesses, and state leadership to identify available supplies  not merely in the federal stockpile, but much more importantly, available across the private sector.Were encouraged to see companies like Honeywell and 3M, that I visited a few short weeks ago, take advantage of the changes in the law last night that allow the sale of industrial masks directly to hospitals. Those companies have now greatly increased, by the tens of millions, their production of socalled N95 masks that will give our healthcare workers the protection that they need to minister to those that are dealing with the symptoms or the disease of coronavirus.Following the signing of last nights bill, all of those masks now have liability protection and the companies can sell industrial masks to hospitals. It is encouraging, as we called out yesterday, to see construction companies all across America that are, as we speak, checking their supplies and donating those industrial masks to their local hospitals.And I know I speak on behalf of the President, who spent a lot of time as a builder, when we thank builders across America for partnering with our local healthcare officials.On the subject of ventilators Were working with healthcare providers around America and suppliers. And Im  were encouraged to learn that weve literally identified tens of thousands of ventilators that being  can be converted to treat patients. And we remain increasingly confident that we will have the ventilators that we need as the coronavirus makes its way across America.And as we said before, this  were all in this together. And before I step away and give the podium back to the President and to Dr. Birx, I want to call every Americans attention again to the Presidents 15 Days to Slow the Spread. We continue to hear one case after another, one city after another, where people are putting into practice the principles that the President outlined this Monday.And make no mistake about it that while for the American people, as a whole, the risk of serious illness remains low, these guidelines should be practiced by every American in every community not only to lessen the spread of the coronavirus, but to protect the most vulnerable among us. And I think Americans with their  with  from their hearts are not only practicing these principles of social distancing and avoiding social gatherings of more than 10 people, using drivethroughs at restaurants to protect their own health and the health of their family, but theyre also recognizing that no American wants to inadvertently convey the coronavirus to someone for whom the consequences could be quite serious.At the Presidents direction, well continue to marshal all the resources of government at every level. Well be reiterating that strong partnership with Americas states this afternoon with Americas governors, pulling all of the privatesector energy together  the innovation that you just heard described.I know, on this first day of spring, that well get through this and well get through this together. Thank you, Mr. President.THE PRESIDENT Thank you, Mike. Thank you very much.Doctor, please.DR. BIRX Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. So I know youre watching the data carefully. You can see the dramatic increases in the number of new cases, based on our ability to test additional people. And this will continue over the next two to three days as we begin to have backlogs reduced of the testing. You all have heard the anecdotes of people waiting five or six days for their test results. We are moving through all of that as well as testing individuals.I really want to applaud the frontline healthcare workers  the nurses and the doctors and the testers  that have really prioritized  and the American people  who have prioritized those with symptoms.The number of test positives is increasing. That is a dramatically important signature that everybody is doing their job. Those with mild symptoms are staying home, selfisolating those with serious symptoms are coming forward to getting testing. Our test positive rates are now in the 10 to 11 percent range. That still means that 90 percent of the illnesses out there, even the severe ones, are not COVID19.I know many of you are looking at the statelevel data. Still, over 50 percent of the cases come from three states. This is why we continue to prioritize testing in those states. In addition, 50 percent of the cases come from 10 counties. We are a very large country with very many counties. And I just want to applaud the local and state governments that are implementing their emergency operation centers and plans to ensure.I want to also really thank the healthcare workers that have been asked to reduce all elective surgeries, medical and dental visits. This will dramatically increase the number of ventilators that are available in hospitals, but also in ambulatory surgical centers that can be converted and utilized.And also, the  to the construction industry We are deeply grateful, the number  as the Vice President said, the number of individuals have come forward with their construction masks, their booties, their tieback suits, and their masks to contribute them to the healthcare sector.The Presidents request to make this available in that legislation changes the ability and increases our availability immediately by the 75 to 90 percent range because of the amount of construction use of those elements. Thank you.THE PRESIDENT Thank you, Doctor, very much.Jerome? Please.SURGEON GENERAL ADAMS Oh, thank you. Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President. Today, you heard a wonderful announcement from the FDA, and I just want to give a shoutout to Steve  Dr. Hahn  and the folks at the FDA, where about  where several hundred of my Commissioned Corps officers work. Youre right, Mr President, they are tireless. Theyre doing things that have never been done before to bring the most  most prudent advances to the American people.But I want to talk about something different, briefly. We know many of you are home practicing the Presidents guidelines for social distancing. But one thing we should all consider, especially our millennials and Gen Z, is donating blood. As an anesthesiologist who still practices at Walter Reed, taking care of our wounded warriors and our soldiers, I know donated blood is an essential part of caring for patients, and one donation can save up to three lives. Blood centers are open now and in need of your donation. I want America to know that blood donation is safe, and blood centers are taking extra precautions at this time, based on new CDC recommendations, including spacing beds six feet apart, disinfecting surfaces between patients, temperature checking staff, and encouraging donors to make appointments ahead of time so we can space them out.Social distancing does not have to mean social disengagement. So give blood today. Youll feel good about it and youll be helping your country and your community during this crisis. And you might even save a life.THE PRESIDENT Thank you, Jerome. Thank you.