James S. Brady Press Briefing Room1206 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. I would like to begin by announcing some important developments in our war against the Chinese virus.Well be invoking the Defense Production Act, just in case we need it. In other words, I think you all know what it is, and it can do a lot of good things if we need it. And we will  we will have it all completed, signing it in just a little while. Right after Im finished with this conference, Ill be signing it. Its prepared to go. So we will be invoking the Defense Production Act.Last week, I signed an emergency declaration under the Stafford Act, which, as you know, we invoked previously and which activated FEMAs National Response Coordination Center. FEMA now is fully engaged at the highest levels.Today, FEMA is activated in every region. We are at level one  level one being the highest level  which we will work with, and weve been working with FEMA. Ive done a lot of work with FEMA. Theyre incredible. Its always been on hurricanes or tornadoes.Theyre, right now, in Tennessee  a large group working in Tennessee. Have been incredible. That was a tragic event. Alabama, last year, also a tornado. And then, obviously the numerous hurricanes in different locations that were, in some cases, very devastating. And, in every case, FEMA came through.This is a very different kind of work for FEMA, but they will come through as they always do. We have tremendous people, tremendous talent in FEMA.Were sending, upon request, the two hospital ships theyre being prepared right now. Theyre massive ships. Theyre the big white ships with the red cross on the sides. One is called the Mercy and the other is called the Comfort. And they are in tiptop shape. They soon will be. Theyre getting ready to come up to New York. I spoke with Governor Cuomo about it. Hes excited about it.And I also  we havent made the final determination as to where its going to go on the West Coast. The Comfort is located now in San Diego, and its going to be  well be picking the destination fairly shortly. So those two ships are being prepared to go, and they can be launched over the next week or so, depending on need.Earlier this week, the first clinical trial of the vaccine candidate for the virus began in Washington State, as you probably know. The genetic sequence of the virus was first published in January. But thanks to the unprecedented partnership between the FDA, NIH, and the private sector, weve reached human trials for the vaccine just eight weeks later. Thats a record by many, many months. It used to take years to do this, and now we did it just in a very short while.Thats the fastest development in history of what were doing with regard to the vaccine. Were making very, very big progress.Today I can announce further steps to expand testing capacity. Were working with several groups to determine if the selfswab  a much easier process than the current process thats not very nice to do, I can tell you, because I did it. But we have a current process thats a little bit difficult.If you havent done  the groups are working on determining if a selfswab by an individual is as effective as the other. The other is very effective, very accurate. But were going to see if we can do a selfswab, which is  would be a lot more popular, I can tell you that. So  and that would be administered also by a health official, but it would be a lot easier to do.The  the fact is that the health professionals would  it would free  it would free up a lot. Let me just say, the selfswab is what it is Its a selfswab you do it yourself. The other has to be issued by a health professional, and its something that is quite difficult. And we think its working out for the selfswab. And if it would test positive, the people would go and they would do what they have to do. But we think thats probably working out.Ive asked the FDA to cut through the red tape and reduce regulatory barriers. We are looking at some very exciting things. And Im going to be holding a second news conference either today. Were going to talk about the FDA. Some things are happening that are quite exciting. And were going to be doing that either later today or tomorrow  fairly early tomorrow. So well see what happens.But the FDA, at my instruction, is  have been working very, very hard on a number of developments, and well be discussing them with you later today or tomorrow.And this afternoon, Ill be meeting with nurses on the frontlines of the battle against the virus. They are truly American heroes. They want to get it done. Theyre incredible people. So were going to be meeting with nurses, and I actually look forward to that. Theyre very brave. Theyre taking a lot of risk. And they  they have done an incredible job and they never complain.Today, Im also announcing that the Department of Housing and Urban Development is providing immediate relief to renters and homeowners by suspending all foreclosures and evictions until the end of April. So were working very closely with Dr. Ben Carson and everybody from HUD.Every generation of Americans has been called to make shared sacrifices for the good of the nation. In World War Two, young people in their teenage years volunteered to fight. They wanted to fight so badly because they love our country. Workers refused to go home and slept on factory floors to keep assembly lines running.And, you know, the numbers of ships that they built during World War Two, to this day has never  nothing like that has ever been equal. They were doing ships on a  literally on a daily basis. Nobody has ever seen anything like it. To this day, nobody has seen anything like what they were able to do during World War Two.And now its our time. We must sacrifice together because we are all in this together and well come through together. Its the invisible enemy. Thats always the toughest enemy the invisible enemy. But were going to defeat the invisible enemy. I think were going to do it even faster than we thought. And it will be a complete victory. Itll be a total victory.So well have a second conference, again, having to do with the FDA and this. I think its going to be potentially a very exciting news conference. And we will do it as quickly as we can, so whether its today or tomorrow.And Ill, with that, ask Mike Pence to say a few words. And thank you very much.THE VICE PRESIDENT Thank you, Mr. President. The White House Coronavirus Task Force met this morning, and now that we have cases in all 50 states, were continuing to move out on the Presidents call to bring the full resources of the federal government, the full partnership with every state and territory, the full power of the American economy, to support businesses and families.As the President says to us and every day Well do whatever it takes. Were all in this together.Yesterday, the President met with the tourism industry executives and also had an engaging discussion with all the top companies in our industrial and medical supply chain.And the President, as you all are aware, also announced today that by mutual consent, the northern border to Canada will be closed to nonessential travel. This does not include essential travel or the transit of goods. But it was through a mutual discussion that took place this morning between the President and Prime Minister Trudeau. And the Department of Homeland Security will be effectuating that decision.The President spoke with some of the nations top business leaders today, again, to speak about the supply chain in the country. And, for our part, were going to be conducting a conference call later today with state and local health officials to renew our ongoing commitment of cooperation and collaboration.As the President said last week in signing the Stafford Act, he stood up the National Response Coordination Center. And today at the Presidents direction, FEMA has gone to level one. FEMAs mission is to support disasters that are locally executed, state managed, and federally supported.And tomorrow, the President will be hosting all the nations governors, from a video conference at FEMA, to ensure that they have full connection to all of the activated regions for FEMA going forward.With regard to testing, Im pleased to report that were increasing the number of tests being performed by the thousands, every day, thanks to the publicprivate partnership that President Trump forged with commercial laboratories around the country.Our health experts tell us to remind every American Its important to remember people without symptoms should not get tested. We want to make sure that the supply of testing is there for those that need it most or are symptomatic or in the vulnerable population.Dr. Deborah Birx, in a moment, will address the progress that were making on testing, the infection rate, our recommendations to every American, as well as some important new findings about the impact on youth that were gaining from data thats coming in from Europe thatll be important to every  every American.On the subject of supplies, the President has our task force extremely focused. As the President mentioned yester  mentioned that hes invoking the Defense Production Act today. Secretary Esper, in a few moments, will describe the ongoing efforts that the Department of Defense is taking to make medical resources available. Secretary Robert Wilkie will announce decisions the VA has made to expand hospital capacity within their system.Also, with regard to medical personnel, at the Presidents direction, HHS is issuing a regulation today that will allow all doctors and medical professionals to practice across state lines to meet the needs of hospitals that may arise in adjoining areas.In addition to that, we are again today asking every American and our medical community leaders and hospitals to partner with us in delaying elective procedures across the country in our healthcare system to ensure that medical supplies and medical capacity go where theyre needed most. Seema Verma will describe guidance that CMS will be issuing on that front.And finally, just, I want to remind every American of the Presidents 15day guidance to slow the spread. Were grateful for members of the media and the general public that are adhering to these, sharing them with neighbors and friends. All of our experts continue to believe that if every American will do their part, and embrace and put into practice these principles, that we can significantly limit the reach of the coronavirus in the weeks and months ahead.Thank you, Mr. President.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Dr. Birx, please.DR. BIRX Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President. So, you know, we continue to look at data every single day. There are concerning reports coming out of France and Italy about some young people getting seriously ill, and very seriously ill in the ICUs.We think part of this may be that people heeded the early data coming out of China and coming out of South Korea that the elderly or those with preexisting medical conditions were at particular risk. It may have been that the millennial generation, our largest generation, our future generation that will carry us through for the next multiple decades, there may be a disproportional number of infections among that group. And so even if its a rare occurrence, it may be seen more frequently in that group and be evident now.So were looking at that information very carefully. We have not seen any significant mortality in the children, but we are concerned about the early reports coming out of Italy and France.So, again, Im going to call on that generation thats part of that group that brought us innovation, particularly throughout all of their ability to look around corners and skip through games. Im  I always went level by level I didnt realize that you could go from level three to level seven. Thats what theyve taught us. They look for things that we dont see. We need them to be healthy.So, again, not only calling on you to heed whats in the guidance, but to really ensure that each and every one of you are protecting each other. And so we cannot have these large gatherings that continue to occur throughout the country for people who are off work, to then be socializing in large groups and spreading the virus. You have the potential then to spread it to someone who does have a condition that none of us knew about and cause them to have a disastrous outcome.Finally, on the testing piece and what were learning I know you know, last week, in bringing the private sector  I think what has been exciting to me over the last two and a half weeks is to see this administration harness the full capacity of the private sector, understanding that a lot of our solutions that we need to confront this virus, a lot rely on the private sector. Bringing the privatesector commercial labs was critical in  to this process. We are now beginning to see that they have spread out in a prioritized way, because we asked them to prioritize the regions that were mostly affected.And so you still may have difficulty getting tests in areas that do not have significant cases. Weve had them prioritize the regions where we need diagnosis and their diagnostic percent. Remember, I told you South Korea was under 4 percent, so 96 percent of people were negative. The last report weve seen from the laboratories have about a 7plus percent positivity rate. Still, 93plus percent or 92 percent are negative. But I think thats encouraging to me, personally, that were prioritizing appropriately to those areas that have the greatest needToday and yesterday, Thermo Fisher pushed out most of their laboratory testing capacity, and that will dramatically increase that platform and the ability to run additional tests, in addition to Roche.So I appreciate everybodys attention to these numbers. Im excited that weve prioritized where the need was the greatest. But again, please follow the guidance and please make sure in every report that youre putting out that youre talking about the presidential guidance to actually stop the spread of this virus.Thank you.THE PRESIDENT Thank you, Deborah, very much.THE PRESIDENT Mark, please.SECRETARY ESPER Thank you, Mr. President. So, good afternoon, everyone. And I want to provide an update on DODs coronavirus efforts as we continue to focus on our three priorities. Thats, first of all, protecting our personnel and their families. Second, safeguarding our national security mission capabilities. And third, of course, supporting the administrations wholeofgovernment approach.First of all, though, I do want to assure the American people that the United States military remains ready and capable of defending the country and our interests abroad. Now, with that, the department is leaning forward in our response to COVID19. We have issued international and domestic travel restrictions to all DOD personnel and families that should dramatically reduce potential exposure to the virus. Those have been in place for some time now.As I announced yesterday, the Department of Defense will make available up to 5 million N95 respirator masks and other personal protective equipment from our own strategic reserves to the Department of Health and Human Services for distribution. The first 1 million masks will be available immediately. We are also prepared to distribute to HHS up to 2,000 operational deployable ventilators for use as needed.Yesterday, I was at Fort Detrick, Maryland, which is probably the militarys premier research institute, where I got updated on the incredible work our people are doing as part of the interagency team to work on vaccines and therapeutics. Theyre making great progress there.We also have announced that weve certified our 16th lab  or well soon certify our 16th lab to help with processing tests from across the country.Additionally, I have directed, as the President mentioned, that the hospital ships, Mercy and Comfort, be prepared to deploy to increase the nations medical capacity. And we have also alerted a variety of field and expeditionary hospitals to be prepared to deploy as well as needed based on direction from the CommanderinChief.Today, leadership from the Army Corps of Engineers is in New York meeting with Governor Cuomo and his team. I spoke with Governor Cuomo yesterday and other governors. I will be speaking to more in the coming days to make sure that they know what DOD can provide through our system to address their needs.In my conversations with governors and members of Congress about DODs resources, Ive made it clear that we will continue to support the administrations comprehensive efforts and the country every step of the way, while ensuring our nations security remains the top priority.I want to conclude by thanking again all of our service members and their families who have been affected by this outbreak. Theyre all great heroes. We are continuing to support them throughout this. We are all in this together.Thank you all very much.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much, Mark.THE PRESIDENT Seema, go ahead.ADMINISTRATOR VERMA Thank you. So, yesterday, the President made a very important announcement about telehealth, and this is allowing our 62 million seniors to be able to get some medical services from the safety of their home, reducing their risk and without any copays.But were also making sure that the healthcare system is prepared and that those on the frontlines have the support that they need. The reality is the stakes are high and we need to preserve personal protective equipment for those that are on the frontlines of this fight.And to that end, we have put out guidelines over the last two weeks to expand the types of masks that can be used in routine care and saving those N95s for the most risky situations.Conserving personal protective equipment is also essential to combat the virus. So today, CMS will announce detailed recommendations to further promote this needed conservation, specifically by limiting nonessential elective medical and surgical procedures, including dental procedures.We believe that these recommendations will help surgeons, patients, and hospitals prioritize what is essential while leaving the ultimate decision in the hands of state and local health officials and those clinicians who have direct responsibility to their patients.And we urge providers and clinicians and patients to seriously consider these recommendations. They will not only preserve equipment, but it also allows doctors and nurses to help those that are on the frontlines, and it will protect patients from unnecessary exposure to the virus.We fully appreciate that this is going to have a major impact on the healthcare system, but the shared sacrifice is essential to help those that are on the frontlines.And I want to thank the medical societies, such as the American College of Surgeons and the American Dental Association, that took a proactive approach and already posted these recommendations. And weve also talked to the American Medical Association, and they have fully indicated their support for this recommendation. We now invite the entire healthcare community to join us in this effort.Thank you.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much.THE VICE PRESIDENT Robert.THE PRESIDENT Robert, please.SECRETARY WILKIE Thank you, Mr. President. My instructions from the President were very clear. I was to do everything imaginable, as aggressively as possible, to protect the 9.5 million veterans who are part of the Department of Veterans Affairs.Last month, we established 19 emergency operations centers across the country. We began to limit the number of visitors who entered our facilities. We began, I think, the first  we were the first system to begin triaging, across the country in our 170 hospitals, the entrance of anyone into our facility without being questioned or tested.We expanded those restrictions to those in our 135 community living centers, which have about 7,800 veterans who are in acute  in acute conditions to make sure that they were protected. We also took the next step and made sure that we limited the dental surgeries that we were provided. Weve cut back by one third the number of routine appointments we have had, and we have canceled elective surgeries.These were all part of the Presidents directive to be as aggressive in a public health sense as we could be. I think we have set the pace for the entire country.I will say, weve often said that we work the most noble mission in the federal government. Our veterans have been in the toughest spots in the world. They have been put in conditions that are unimaginable to most Americans, and they have responded. They have responded clearly. They have responded with passion. And also, the 400,000 members of our department who are out there on the frontlines.The last thing I will say is that youve heard a lot about the fourth mission that VA has. Our first three missions are healthcare, benefits, and memorial affairs. Our fourth mission is to support the federal government in times of natural disasters and pandemics.We are the buttress force in case that FEMA or HHS calls upon us to deploy medical professionals across the country to meet crises. We plan for that every day. We are gaming out emergency preparedness scenarios. And we stand ready, when the President needs us, to expand our mission.Thank you.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Robert, thank you. Thank you all. Thats very nice.Any questions? Please.