James S. Brady Press Briefing Room1139 A.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Thank you very much, everyone. Thank you. Progress being made. And I appreciate you all joining us.Last night, the FDA announced groundbreaking new policies to further increase testing very substantially so. All states can now authorize tests developed and used within their borders, in addition to the FDA. So the states are very much involved. They have been involved from the beginning. But were stepping it up as much as we can, and the testing procedures are going well.And within a short period of time, all other private labs will kick in. This has never been done before, and its going to be something very  I think its going to be incredible if its done properly. And these are great companies. These are among the greatest companies in the world, actually.So the states are going to be dealing through themselves and with local government, local physicians, local everybody. Theyre also dealing with us. But we have a tremendous testing capacity.Today, were also announcing a dramatic expansion of our Medicare telehealth services. Medicare patients can now visit any doctor by phone or video conference at no additional cost, including with commonly used services like FaceTime and Skype  a historic breakthrough. This has not been done before either. In addition, states have the authority to cover telehealth services for their medical patients. And by doing this, the patient is not seeing the doctor, per se, but theyre seeing the doctor. So theres no getting close.During this time, we will not enforce applicable HIPAA penalties so that doctors can greatly expand care for their patients using telehealth. So the penalties wont be enforced. We encourage everyone to maximize use of telehealth to limit exposure to the virus. Its been a very successful method of communication but never used on a scale like were going to use on telehealth. And youll be able to also better maintain hospital capacity by doing this.Earlier this morning, I spoke with executives from Americas fastfood industry  Wendys, McDonalds, all of the big ones, Burger King  and they were great. We were talking about the pickups in light of yesterdays guidance, you heard, to avoid eating or drinking at bars, restaurants, or public food courts. We discussed the important role that the drivethrough, pickup, and delivery service can play in the weeks ahead.So thats happening, and they have been fantastic. They have been absolutely fantastic. And theyve been doing it already. But theyre keeping it open and smaller staffs. Theyre very capable people and very capable companies, and theyre doing it, the pickups.Our guidance yesterday urges Americans to take action for 15 days to help stem the outbreak. So its a 15day period. I guess, now I would say its a 14day period. It was 15 days from yesterday, and were asking everyone to work at home, if possible, postpone unnecessary travel, and limit social gatherings to no more than 10 people. By making shared sacrifices and temporary changes, we can protect the health of our people and we can protect our economy, because I think our economy will come back very rapidly. So its 15 days from yesterday. Well see what happens after that. If we do this right, our country  and the world, frankly  but our country can be rolling again pretty quickly. Pretty quickly.We have to fight that invisible enemy that, I guess, unknown but were getting to know it a lot better.Today, the Senate is taking up coronavirus legislation that includes free testing for those who need it, as well as paid sick leave and family medical leave for workers affected by the virus. Were also committed to getting small businesses the support that they need. In fact, one of the things we talked about with the fast food operations  we spoke to the chairmen and CEOs of all of the companies  but one of the things we discussed is exactly that getting small businesses support and flexibility that they need for themselves and for their workers, and thats being worked on right now.At my direction, Secretary Mnuchin is meeting today with senators on additional stimulus packages. I can tell you he was meeting with them late until the night, last night, and for a big part of the day yesterday, and tremendous things are happening. Theres great spirit. Tremendous spirit. And I can say that for Republicans and Democrats.I can say that, with respect to Governor Cuomo, we had a great talk this morning. Were both doing a really good job, and were coordinating it. And we agree  you know, different states need different things. And we  we agree on that 100 percent. But we had a very good talk, and I think were right down the same track, and its going to be very successful.New York has a pretty big problem. I guess, would be the number one hotspot. Its no fault of anybody. Its just the way it is. But were working very closely together. Were also getting FEMA very much involved. Theyve been involved, but now were getting them to a different level, and well have everything ready. Were dealing with the Army Corps of Engineers should that be necessary. We have them working, in some cases on standby, in other cases.But my conversation with Andrew Cuomo was a very, very productive one and a very good one. And I appreciate that.Were giving relief to affected industries and small businesses, and were ensuring that we emerge from this challenge with a prosperous and growing economy because thats whats going to happen. Its going to pop. One day, well be standing, possibly up here, and well say, Well, we won. And were going to say that. As sure as youre sitting there, were going to say that. And were going to win, and I think were going to win faster than people think, I hope.Later today, Ill meet with the leaders from the tourism industry, as well as industrial supply retailers and wholesalers, to discuss their critical roles. As you know, I met with the department store people, all of the retailers  the big ones, including Walmart and others  and it was a great meeting. Theyre stocking up their stores like theyve never stocked them before. Were trying to get people to actually buy less if thats possible. Buy less. Dont take everything. Just buy what you need for a while. Its  theyre going to stay open all hours of the day. And theyve really been  theyve been fantastic.Were taking aggressive action now as one nation and one family so that America can rebound stronger  frankly, stronger than ever before. And we recognize that while many American workers can work from home, many others cannot. Many of our healthcare providers, first responders, and men and women in the food service and manufacturing are showing at  theyre showing up and standing up to provide us with the goods and services we need.So we want people to stay home where they can, but in many cases, when you talk about food service and manufacturing, certain items in particular, they are  theyre going in and theyre practicing all of the safety rules and regulations that we talk about.So with that, Id like to just introduce our great Vice President, Mike Pence. Hell say a few words, and then Ill make some other introductions.Thank you very much.THE VICE PRESIDENT Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. It should be very clear to the American people that President Trump has initiated not only a wholeofgovernment approach, but a wholeofAmerica approach. And the Presidents interaction, even today and through the course of this day, with leaders in industry around the country, reflects that were not only bringing the full weight of the federal government to bear, but the full weight of the American economy.And I know I speak on behalf of the President when I say how inspired we are at the way the American people have stepped up and the way that American businesses, large and small, have stepped up. Its truly been inspiring.Our task force met this morning. We continue to focus on President Trumps priorities of testing, prevention, and supplies. And in that category, Im pleased to report that while testing is available in all 50 states, as the President just indicated, through the swift action of the FDA, at the encouragement of governors around the country, now state health authorities can authorize labs in their state and expand existing testing capabilities.But also in connection with the FDAs action, which youll hear more about in a moment, we now have continued to expand the public and private partnership that the President forged with vast commercial laboratories around the country, increasing access to the high volume of highthroughput coronavirus testing that is greatly expanding access even as we speak.Also, our task force received a report this morning on the progress that the U.S. Public Health Service and FEMA are making, working closely with state governments and also partners in the private sector like CVS, Target, Walgreen, and Walmart, to expand remote testing sites around the country. And well have a full report later this week as those come online.Its important the American people understand that testing is happening all over the country. But all of our health experts wanted me to tell the American people you dont need the results of testing to know what you should do. And President Trumps 15day coronavirus guidelines are advice for every American in every community. Theyre the result of the best guidance of CDC and our health experts.And, as the President said, we continue to urge every American over the next 15 days to put into practice the principles in the Presidents coronavirus guidelines. By every American practicing these principles, we believe that we can slow the spread of the coronavirus. In fact, our experts have told our taskforce that if every American acts on the Presidents coronavirus guidelines, we could see a substantial reduction in the spread of the coronavirus.But as the President said, it will take all of us to do it. And so, if you feel sick, stay home. If someone in your house tests positive, keep the entire household home. Especially if youre a person with an underlying health condition, we urge you to stay home and practice social distancing from people. No social gatherings of more than 10 people. Use drivethrough, as the President discussed with leaders in the industry today. And every American, especially practicing common sense and good hygiene.For the American people as a whole, the risk of serious illness remains low, but were asking every American to partner with us in this effort to slow the spread of the virus and especially to be mindful of seniors or others with serious underlying health conditions for whom the threat of the coronavirus can be very significant and very real.As I said, the President has continued to push our task force to bring a wholeofgovernment, a wholeofAmerica approach. And we continue to be inspired the way our nations governors, the nations businesses are responding.We spoke just yesterday with the leaders of every broadcast network in America that will soon be unveiling a public service campaign using CDC guidelines. And specifically, as we work on the issue of supplies  meetings yesterday with Department of Defense officials about excess supplies the President and I will be meeting today to speak about the supply chain for hospitals  we would make one specific request, and that is We would urge construction companies to donate their inventory of N95 masks to your local hospital and forego additional orders of those industrial masks.Because of what the President asked to be included in legislation moving through the Congress today, those industrial masks that they use on construction sites are perfectly acceptable for healthcare workers to be protected from a respiratory disease.But were asking construction companies that our President knows very well from his background  were asking them to donate their N95 masks to their local hospitals and also forego making additional orders.At the Presidents direction, we will  we will continue to do whatever it takes. Well continue to marshal the best of the American people, the best of all the people behind me, the people behind them, our state and local officials. And we will get through this, and we will get through this together.Thank you, Mr. President.THE PRESIDENT Thank you, Mike, very much. Thank you.THE PRESIDENT I want to thank Chad Wolf and Homeland Security. The job they did at the airports was really incredible. They screened thousands and thousands of people. OHare got backed up, but  a little bit, but they got them out. But everybody was screened and screened very carefully. They didnt want to rush it. I think it was 13 airports. And it was  it was an incredible thing. Then they had a big surge also from the UK and Ireland, and that went very smoothly. But they did a fantastic job. They worked long hours and they did a fantastic job.Id like to introduce Steve Mnuchin, and then Im going to ask Steve to leave because hes going to the Hill. Hes been working very hard with the Senate and with  actually, with the House on a very, very big, bold package. Its going to be big and its going to be bold. And the level, again, of enthusiasm to get something done, I dont think Ive ever seen anything quite like it.So, Steve Mnuchin, please.SECRETARY MNUCHIN Thank you, Mr. President. Id like to announce some very significant actions that the President has approved today. The first, I would say, is Earlier today, I sent a letter to Fed Chairman Powell approving his request to use 133. And what that will do is, the Fed will be setting up a special purpose vehicle, which the Treasury will invest 10 billion in from one of our funds. That will enable the Fed to guarantee the purchase of A1P1 commercial paper going forward. That is a 1trilliondollar market and it is critical to American workers, its critical to American business, and its critical to American savers who have a lot of that money in money market funds.So we heard, loud and clear, there were liquidity issues. This is very significant. And well create  I dont think well need to use it all, but we have the ability to have the Fed purchase up to 1 trillion of commercial paper, as needed. That has already created significant stability in the market today.The second thing I would say is, you know, weve previously talked about deferring IRS payments. The President, earlier this morning, authorized me to announce this program. I have previously announced we would defer 200 billion. The President suggested we increase that to 300 billion, which we will be doing.Now, let me just be clear on the specifics We encourage those Americans who can file their taxes to continue to file their taxes on April 15, because for many Americans, you will get tax refunds and we dont want you to lose out on those tax refunds. We want you to make sure you get them. Many people do this electronically, which is easy for them and easy for the IRS.If you owe a payment to the IRS, you can defer up to a million dollars as an individual. And the reason why were doing a million dollars is that covers lots of passthroughs and small businesses, and 10 million to corporations, interestfree and penaltyfree for 90 days. All you have to do is file your taxes. Youll automatically not get charged interest in penalties.Now, of course, any American has the right to extend their taxes. Were not taking that right. But the President has asked us to go up to 300 billion. Thats also an enormous amount of liquidity in the system.The third thing is the President and I worked on a very significant economic stimulus plan. Thank you for being available last night and throughout this morning. And I will be presenting that to the Republicans in the Senate this morning and also discussing that with the House.We look forward to having bipartisan support. Were now working with the Senate to pass this legislation very quickly. And these will be payments to small businesses. Weve talked about loan guarantees to critical industries such as airlines and hotels. And weve also talked about a stimulus package to the American worker. You can think of this as something like business interruption payments for the American workers.Thank you.THE PRESIDENT Do you have any questions for the Secretary of the Treasury?