James S. Brady Press Briefing Room515 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Beautiful day outside. And I think we have some great things to talk about. Ill start by discussing the Federal Reserve. As you know, it just happened minutes ago, but, to me, it makes me very happy. And I want to congratulate the Federal Reserve.For starters, theyve lowered the Fed rate from what it was, which was 1 to 1.25. And its been lowered down to zero, to 0.25 or .25. So its 0 to .25. Thats a big difference. Its quite a bit. Its about a point.And, in addition, very importantly, the Federal Reserve is the  going to be purchasing 500 billion of treasuries and 200 billion of mortgagebacked securities. And that number can increase. But theyre going to start with that, and thats really good news. Its really great for our country. Its something that were very happy. I have to say this Im very happy. And they did it in one step they didnt do it in four steps over a long period of time. They did it in one step.And I think that people in the market should be very thrilled. And that brings us  were the strongest country in the world, by far, financially and every other way. And that brings us in line with what other countries are. Theyre actually  they actually have negative rates. But, look, we got it down to potentially zero. So thats a big step, and Im very happy they did it.And you will not hear anything bad about me unless its about a month or two from now. So I congratulate the Federal Reserve. I think its terrific. It just came out, just as we spoke. I wasnt going to mention Federal Reserve or anything else, but this came out as we were walking up.I want to thank the people at Google and Google Communications because, as you know, they substantiated what I said on Friday. The head of Google, whos a great gentleman, said  called us and he apologized. I dont know where the press got their fake news, but they got it someplace. But as you know  this is from Google  they put out a release. And you guys can figure it out yourselves. And how that got out  and Im sure youll apologize. But it would be great if we could really give the news correctly. It would be so, so wonderful.I just had a phone call with very impressive people  the biggest in the world, in the world of stores and groceries and all. And Ill give you the namesDave Clark, Whole Foods.Mark Clouse, CEO of Campbell Soup Company.Brian Cornell, CEO of Target.Randy Edeker, Chairman and CEO, President of HyVee.Jeff Harmening, CEO of General Mills. A great company.Kevin Hourican, President and CEO of Sysco.Craig Jelinek, CEO of Costco.Todd Jones, CEO of Publix Super Markets.Donnie King, Tyson Foods.David MacLennan, Chairman and CEO of Cargill.Rodney McMullan, CEO, Chairman of Kroger  a big company.Doug McMillon, CEO of Walmart. Hes been fantastic. Doug was here, as you know, on Friday. And he watched the market go up 2,000 points. On Friday, it went up 2,000  almost 2,000 points.Todd Vasos, CEO of Dollar General Corporation.And Vivek Sankaran, President and CEO of Albertsons.So these are all phenomenal companies. These are great companies. We had a long conversation with them. And theyve  theyre going to work 24 hours around the clock keeping their store stocked.I would like to say that people shouldnt go out and buy. Were going to all be great. Were going to be so good. Were going to do  whats happened with the Fed is phenomenal news. Whats happening with all of these incredible companies is phenomenal news.But you dont have to buy so much. Take it easy. Just relax. People are going in and theyre buying more. I remember  I guess, during the conversation, Doug of Walmart said that theyre buying more than they buy at Christmas. Relax. Were doing great. It all will pass.The folks that we spoke to, theyve done a fantastic job. Theyre going to meet the needs of the public. Theyre going around the clock, if they have to. And theyre committed to the communities where theyre serving and which they serve so beautifully and have for a long time. And theyre buying a lot of additional things to sell.But again, they  they actually have asked me to say, Could you buy a little bit less, please? I think  I thought Id never hear that from a retailer.All of them are working handinhand with the federal government, as well as the state and local leaders, to ensure food and essentials are constantly available. And theyll do it. Theres no shortages. We have no shortages  other than people are buying anywhere from three to five times what they would normally buy. Its going to be there for a long time.Were doing numbers, and theres a pentup demand thats incredible. When this passes, when this goes through, youre going to see numbers  I think, I predict I guess Im allowed to predict just like Wall Street people are allowed to predict, and theyre pretty much in agreement  youre going to see theres a pentup demand like  like a lot of people, including me, havent seen before. But this has to get through.They know theyre getting through the crisis and will require an allofAmerica approach, and thats very important. Theyre committed to remaining open during this crisis. Totally open. They have to stay open. Those stores have to stay open. They supply our country.Our supply chains in America are the most powerful in the world, and theyre all working very hard. Theyre working around the clock. And the stores are stocking up at a level thats beyond Christmastime. And its  its great. It was very reassuring speaking to these people. They have it totally in hand.Theres no need for anybody in the country to hoard essential food supplies. They said to me, Could you please tell them just go and buy, enjoy it. Have a nice dinner. Relax. Because theres plenty. But you dont have to the quantities because its hard to refill the stores on a basis as rapid as theyre refilling them.And were using the full power of the federal government to defeat the coronavirus, and we will do whatever it takes. And were doing, I think, really, really well. A lot of good things are going to happen.I want to thank all of the people standing behind me. You know, these are phenomenal people, and we have some of them right over here. But the people behind me have been working around the clock, and theyre doing an incredible job.We see whats happening. We see whats going on in other countries. Were looking at  were learning from watching other countries, frankly. This is a very contagious  this is a very contagious virus. Its incredible. But its something that we have tremendous control over.I think, very important, the young people and people of good health, and groups of people, just are not strongly affected. Elderly people that are not well, or not well in certain respects, are, really, a very dangerous group. We have to watch them. We have to protect them very much. We have to really watch over them and protect them because they are very vulnerable.And with that, if its okay, Im just going to go and make some calls. Im talking about Federal Reserve. I think its a tremendous thing that took place just now. I didnt know Id be surprised on a Sunday. I dont know if thats ever happened on a Sunday before. But I would think there are a lot of people on Wall Street that are very happy. And I can tell you that Im very happy. I didnt expect this, and I like being surprised.So our Vice President, whos doing an incredible job, is going to take over. And I will see you probably tomorrow. Thank you very much.THE VICE PRESIDENT Well, thank you, Mr. President. And good afternoon. With more than 2,900 cases of coronavirus in 49 states across the country, I want to assure the American people that this administration, all of our partners at the state level, and local health officials have no higher priority than the health and safety of the American public.And at the Presidents direction, we will continue not only a wholeofgovernment approach, but as well discuss today, well continue to build on a wholeofAmerica approach to confront the coronavirus across the country.The health experts continue to confirm to us that based on the latest information, for the American people as a whole, the risk of serious illness remains low. But because the risk is heavily weighted to the most vulnerable  to people with immunodeficiencies and to people who are elderly with serious underlying chronic health conditions  our administration and, I know, state administrations will continue to focus on the most vulnerable. And we will continue to urge every American to be vigilant in practicing good hygiene and taking the advice of the CDC and local health experts to keep those most vulnerable safe.I know I speak on behalf of the President and our entire team when I say how grateful we are for governors all across the country and the seamless partnership that we have forged with them and with state health officials, with our federal team.I spoke today to Governor Pritzker of Illinois, and we are in continuous communication with governors a phone call away. They know that they can contact us and address even the smallest need, because as a  as a former governor, I know firsthand that when it comes to health challenges in America, our states are on the ground in the lead, our local health organizations. And weve built a great partnership.We also want to express great appreciation to the American people. Not surprisingly, it is inspiring to see the way tens of millions of Americans are responding with compassion, with common sense. And we want to express particular gratitude to communities of faith that participated in todays National Day of Prayer. Weve seen places of worship implementing policies to keep those most vulnerable safe. And also, were seeing communities of faith already stepping forward to support and to encourage those most vulnerable.I heard tell of a church back in Indiana thats actually no longer having services until April 10th, but in the meantime theyll be offering daycare to the children of healthcare workers in Central Indiana. And churches all across the country are taking the opportunity to reach out and put feet on their faith, and its truly inspiring.As the President mentioned today, he spoke today to leaders in the grocery store industry and where people buy our food. And we heard, and were reminded, that America has the most efficient and effective supply chain in the world, and its working just fine.As the President said, he received a commitment from those grocery store executives that stores will stay open throughout the days that lie ahead. We were told that hours may be reduced to allow for cleaning and to resupply, but American families can be confident your local grocery store is going to be open its going to be well supplied. And they specifically asked us to encourage Americans Just buy your weekly needs and grocery, because the grocery stores will remain open.Also, very movingly, those same executives all reiterated their commitment to continue to support local food banks in the way that our grocers continue to do around America.Tomorrow, the President and I will be briefing all the nations governors from states and territories, and the District of Columbia, to be speaking about the progress that were making. And well be speaking to them specifically about our widening partnership on expanding testing to the American people.So allow me to speak to that issue, and then Im going to recognize Admiral Brett Giroir, who will describe for us the excellent work the Public Health Service is doing. Dr. Birx will describe the importance of the new national publicprivate partnership for diagnostic testing that is going to open the door to thousands of more tests in real time for the American people in the days ahead.First, some fundamentals. As the American people know, testing is now available in all 50 states. Either state labs are either conducting the tests themselves, or the CDC is processing tests. Theyre using the traditional manner of a manual test that allows for 40 to 60 tests a day.It is among the reasons why the President, several weeks ago, tasked this group at the White House to reach out to commercial labs around the country and forge that publicprivate partnership that would bring the highspeed  or more accurately, the highthroughput testing for coronavirus available in real time.And based on the unprecedented speed of the FDA, which last week approved highthroughput coronavirus testings for Roche and Thermo Fisher, we will now have access in the days ahead to more than 2,000 labs across the country that have the equipment today to process coronavirus tests much more rapidly and a much higher volume for the American people.In terms of delivering those services, more than 10 states  in addition to CDC labs, public health labs, and labs that states can now authorize in their states  more than 10 states have implemented their own drivethrough testing sites. And we want to commend New York, Colorado, Delaware, Washington State, Texas, and others that have implemented these onsite places where people can obtain tests.Most are using the current CDC testing, the manual testing, but we are working closely with our governors, as you will hear momentarily, to make sure that the new testing regimen is available for their remote sites as well.As I mentioned, as of Monday, we will have more than 2,000 labs coming online with the highspeed testing, and we are connecting states to those testing methods.Were also working with a number of retail partners to add to the work that states are doing around the country, working to set up parking lot testing centers outside of stores. And Admiral Brett Giroir will detail the progress that weve made over the last 72 hours.Following the Presidents declaration of emergency, the Admiral and our Public Health Service have forged a partnership now with FEMA, made possible by that declaration. And theyve reached out to all 50 states to create a process that will enable all Americans who need to be tested to go to a communitybased testing site outside of usual healthcare facilities.The focus of these tests, as Dr. Birx will describe momentarily, will be on those most in need. A priority will be placed on healthcare workers and first responders who are out there coming alongside people that are being impacted by the coronavirus. We want to make sure they have access to the testing as a priority.And then, Americans 65 or over with a cough or a fever or other symptoms will be prioritized over other tests that are extended.As I mentioned, Admiral Giroir will describe the progress that weve made in just a few moments, but were going to continue to work very diligently  hour by hour, day by day  in the days ahead to expand testing around the country and access to this extraordinary and unprecedented national publicprivate partnership for diagnostic testing.With regard to testing As we expand testing, were so pleased that Congress joined with our administration to make sure that cost is never going to be a barrier to anyone getting a coronavirus test.As you recall, several weeks ago, the President directed a change in our Medicare and Medicaid programs to ensure the coronavirus testing was included. Health insurers were brought in they all agreed to waive copays. But because of the good bipartisan work done in the House of Representatives, now all coronavirus testing is free, and its free for every American, including uninsured Americans. And we continue to urge passage of the legislation that will be considered by the Senate this week.Let me say one final word about the testing issue, and that is that we  as the President often says, were all in this together. And its absolutely important that as we expand testing resources across the country, beginning by prioritizing the areas that CDC and our state leadership tell us are most important, its important that the tests are available for people that are most in need and for our healthcare workers and first responders that are  that are helping them and supporting them.As Dr. Birx will describe, the testing that is available should only be done if for any reason you think you may have the coronavirus. We encourage people to consult their doctor. And if youre  if youre symptomfree, we encourage you to work with us to make sure that testing is available for people that are experiencing symptoms.Its extremely important that we have the continuing cooperation of every American as we expand testing and make it available during this challenging time in the life of our nation.With that, Im going to ask Dr. Birx  oh, excuse me, Im going to ask Admiral Brett Giroir of the Public Health Service and leader of this great Commissioned Corps behind me to come up and describe the extraordinary work that they have done over the last 72 hours and will be doing each and every day, in conjunction with our states, to expand testing to communitybased testing across the country for the American people using this new publicprivate partnership diagnostic testing.Admiral?ADMIRAL GIROIR Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And thank you for your personal interest in support of our team over the last 72 hours as we worked on this critically important project.So as the Vice President said, over the past 72 hours, we have developed and are beginning to implement now a process and a program of testing that will enable Americans who are in need of coronavirus testing to be tested effectively and efficiently according to a few principlesNumber one, we want to assure that those most vulnerable and those impacted are able to be prioritized.Number two, we dont want to do testing that in any way threatens the acute care system. In other words, we dont want people going to hospitals and acute care clinics where, number one, they could infect other people or subject themselves to infections.And number three, we want to balance the needs across the entire healthcare system among diagnosis but also treatment. In other words, we want to balance the stress on the Strategic National Stockpile and all our commodities so that everyone gets all the materials they need.So what do we do? Because, as the Vice President said, last weeks historically fast approval of highthroughput testing, we are now in a new phase of testing. And youve heard Dr. Fauci talk about the new phase.So were going from somewhat manual, relatively slow phases, to a testing regimen that we can test many tens of thousands to hundreds of thousands of individuals per week and maybe even more. We will have 1.9 million of these highthroughput tests available this week with numerous labs, up to 2,000, starting to turn the lights on beginning this week and rolling out over the week. That is really a gamechanger for us because the backoftheshop testing capability is there.The front of the shop is what weve been really working on. In order to get a test there, youve got to be able to swab individuals, get them into the system without completely paralyzing the entire healthcare system as we know.So, with the emergency declaration, this was very, very important to us because it really enabled the historically effective processes of working and empowering states  federally supported, stateled efforts  through the normal FEMA mechanisms.So for the last 72 hours, representatives of FEMA from across the government and our Commissioned Corps have been working on joining the unique and unprecedented public health mission with the historically successful mission of personal  of distribution centers, places for distribution  the pod system of FEMA.Our Public Health Service  weve already deployed over a thousand officers in support of the coronavirus missions. That includes to the Diamond Princess, to the borders, to the quarantine stations, to the acute care settings where were caring for nursing home residents in Seattle. So we have a very experienced group, and we brought these together.So what weve really designed in how were working with the states We have contacted all 50 states through the FEMA system  every single region, every single state  to understand where they are.As the Vice President said, some states are rolling out some of their own communitybased testing. They need to be augmented. We believe weve created a model, based on the Public Health and the FEMA system, that is optimized, that can be used for drivethrough or potentially walkthrough. Each of these podbased units, we believe, can screen 2,000 to 4,000 individuals a day for testing, with all the appropriate personal protective gear, all the appropriate backend and linkage to the public health system, including testing.We know that we have the logistics to do that. We know we have the materials to do that. And again, this is federally supported stateled efforts. Many states need the full meal deal. They want dozens of Public Health Service officers to work in protective gear to actually test. They need supplies, like protective gear they need swabs they need the logistical supports. Other states only need a fraction of that. They may have all the personnel, but they really need the knowhow, the template, and some of the gear that we provide.We are going to start implementing this system, this week, in a number of states, primarily those that are the hardest hit right now or are on the rise and the CDC advises us that thats when they need the testing.I want to emphasize, again, that were focusing on two very important groups  and youll hear this said three or four different ways  and the groups that really can be the most impacted or impactful in our outbreak.Number one is healthcare workers and first responders. This is very important for two reasons. Number one, we have to take care of the healthcare workers and responders, because when America needs them, they need to be available and healthy to provide the care that we all deserve. But its also important that if they feel they have a risk of having contacted sic coronavirus, that we test them so they cannot spread that, for example, in longterm care facilities where the elderly are.And the second group would be the elderly. And we are classifying that, according to risk, is those 65 years of age or older who have a respiratory symptom and a fever of 99.6. Thats a lower number than youve seen before because those who are older do not spike high fevers, like children do  104, 105. So you set the bar just a little bit lower.We do that because we know that theyre at high risk of bad consequences. And if they test positive, they could engage with their practitioner, telehealth provider, or get in the system to make sure they have just an outstanding outcome.So that is really where we are. Weve made really unprecedented progress. You will see these sites rolling out progressively over the week. This is not makebelieve. This is not fantasy. Weve developed the model. Weve talked to the states. Were focusing in on specific locations now. We will start shipping gear, stuff, tomorrow. We will start deploying officers tomorrow and Tuesday. And well begin seeing these sites, in addition to the ones that are springing up now, implemented during this week.We will have the capability of testing tens of thousands of additional people through these sites every week, in addition to all the capability thats now going to be distributed in the 2,000 laboratories and the major central, core laboratories.And I know you have a number of questions that hopefully in the questionandanswer session well be able to answer for you.But I think this is just a great linkage. Im a pediatric ICU doctor. I take care of sick people. I know what happens when you get respiratory illness. The Surgeon General is an anesthesiologist who takes care of people who have respiratory difficulties and manages that.So we know how this  we know how this works. Weve been there. The most important thing weve worked on right now is making testing accessible because of the advances of the FDA and private industry to make these highthroughput tests. Now we can work on the front end.With the emergency declaration, we have all the tools, and all of government has really come together with industry, not just government and states. Its really been private industry, the manufacturers, to bring the swabs, the personal protective gear, the laboratory testing, the shipping, the fronts with Walgreens and Walmarts working as potential sites.This has been something, in my mind, that has been unprecedented, the entire society approach working so intensely over the past  certainly over the past weeks, but incredibly on this project over the past 72 hours.THE VICE PRESIDENT Thank you, Admiral. And let me say we are moving out, now that we have the publicprivate partnership with the major commercial labs. And now you have our Public Health team as well as FEMA moving out, connecting to the states, to deploy these pointofdistribution community centers.Well also be working closely with members of the media and individual jurisdictions, as well as were working with Google and other tech companies to make sure that theres online resources where people will be able to readily access a questionnaire that will walk them through the symptoms and whether or not a test might be indicated.And also, in the days ahead, we look forward to that same website being able to direct people to the nearest community center or drivethrough center thats available.But let me  me let me introduce Dr. Deborah Birx to speak about that  that patient experience  and about the importance of the right people seeking the testing in the days ahead.Doctor?DR. BIRX Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Let me just start by recognizing the men and women of the military who are serving us every day. They are my brothers and sisters. I was privileged to serve alongside them for quite a long time.But, critically, I just want to recognize at this moment the Public Health Commissioned Corps behind me. The Vice President  although he didnt speak to this  actually went to see them yesterday at the place where they were working, so that we wouldnt disturb them, because of their level of dedication and work through the last, really, 48 hours nonstop.So, thank you. Thank you for your work, and thank you for the work that you brought together. And thank you, Admiral, for explaining it so quickly.Let me just go back to the way laboratory work is done in the United States. I think all of you know, when you go to your doctor, and you need a lab test, it is either done in your doctors office, or its done in the lab that they send you to.When we started this emergency response to this virus, we started with what we knew, and that was the flu platform that we use for surveillance. It wasnt set up in your doctors office. It wasnt set up in our hospital laboratories. It was set up in state and local labs and at the CDC.Over the last two weeks, weve been working with the groups that have served you for decades  the commercial laboratories that you dont see, but your specimen goes to  to ensure they had the full capacity to meet the needs of the American people. Because it wasnt going to be 50 to 100 to 1,000 tests it was going to be tens of thousands of tests that would be needed to be done.And so, the last two weeks has been spent on really getting what you are used to the full force of the clinical laboratories and service.At the same time, what you heard described here is how do we serve the needs of the people in the community where they reside where we know when were talking about people with vulnerable conditions, immunosuppression medical conditions, or the elderly, that we dont want them having to sit for long times in doctors office and hospitals waiting rooms.And you see what state and local governors have done to move past what we would normally do  a referral to your doctors office and to your hospital  but really providing communityled services to provide this testing.What the federal government is doing is augmenting that  augmenting the innovation that existed in South Korea, brought here to the shores of the United States and brought in our own novel way, but utilizing our healthcare delivery system, which is different than South Korea, and adapting our work to our systemSo, to the hospitals and to the laboratories We know that there will be pentup demand for this. Make sure every hospital and every laboratory  Im speaking to my  the people who work in labs, like I did myself. Make sure you have enough pipette tips, pipettors, and all of the equipment that you need to run this laboratory.You know what you need. Make sure you have that and have that available for these tests  because we know with this increased sampling, this increased ability to have community access, additional samples will be going to these laboratories. They can manage the high throughput, but they need all of the supplies that they would normally need to run these tests. Think of it  if youre doing HIV viral load, same thing just what you need. You know what you need make sure you have that. That will be run.And the most important thing, I know, for each and every one of you is how am I going to get my results. And so were making sure also that the end of reporting is also there that the reporting is available to you, to your doctor, and also to the state and local governments and the federal government, not with your personal identifiers, but to really understand where there are positives, where there are negatives, so we can ensure that healthcare providers have what they need to meet the demands of the American people and their health needs when theyre there.Now, let me just say one bit about reporting. So you will notice, as these tests roll out over this next week, we will have a spike in our curve. For those of you who watched China and China reporting, remember when they changed their definition and all of a sudden there was a blip in their curve? We are going to see that. We are going to see a spike as more and more people have access.And I want to finish by, again, reminding people how important it is. I know everybody is going to want to go to these drivethroughs. But if we could prioritize, like we have asked you to prioritize the care of every person with a preexisting condition and immunosuppression, and the elderly with existing conditions  weve asked you to prioritize them and we ask you to prioritize them in the lines, so that our first responders and our healthcare providers and everybody who has difficulty to get to doctors offices can utilize this system while we bring all the other traditional systems that youre used to and have availability for youonline over the next few days and weeks.So, thank you. Thank you for constantly reminding us how important. Its a response of all of America for Americans. All of America for Americans. Its a privilege to be part of this solution and be part of this team.And again, I want to close by recognizing the Commissioned Corps. They have spent  Im not sure they had anything but pizza to eat for the last two days, but we appreciate grat ADMIRAL GIROIR Donuts.SURGEON GENERAL ADAMS Apples and bananas. Apples and bananas.ADMIRAL GIROIR Donuts.Laughter.DR. BIRX All right, dont follow their guidance. Laughter.THE VICE PRESIDENT Dr. Fauci?DR. FAUCI Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ill be very brief. I just want to say, listening to the description of Admiral Giroir, Im very pleased to see how things have evolved. I think we could describe this as entering into a new phase in the testing space available here in the United States.Youve heard me, on many of these briefings, talk about the multifaceted armamentarium that we have to address the crisis of what the world is seeing and the challenge that were seeing right here in the United States.I mean, obviously, the travel restrictions have been, in my mind, a very, very positive way that we have prevented more of the input from outside in that would seat us and make our job more difficult.And then we have, as I mentioned, the containment and the mitigation from within. Youre going to be hearing more about advanced guidelines about that, more precise instructions of how we can implement this mitigation within the community.But now that we have a situation that is going to be rolled out  and remember, I want to emphasize what was just said Were not going to go from here to there overnight. Its going to be a gradual ratcheting up that I believe is going to happen quickly so that then we can start talking about things and put behind us the multiple understandable questions about testing and move on to see how we can make this multifaceted approach really work for us. Because as Ive said many times, and Ill repeat it The worst is, yes, ahead for us. It is how we respond to that challenge thats going to determine what the ultimate endpoint is going to be.We have a very, very critical point now. If you look at the curves that Ive described multiple, multiple times, this window that were in is going to be very important for us to stay ahead of this curve. Thank you.THE VICE PRESIDENT Thank you, Doc. Stay close.Questions?