James S. Brady Press Briefing Room1219 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. We just completed a very good meeting of the Coronavirus Task Force. And we  were really  theyre really doing a great job, our professionals. The results are very  very, very good. And when you compare this to whats happening around the world, were very proud of our people.And theres been a tremendous amount of coordination with states, with cities, and theyre a little smaller form of government, and they have things going well. Theyre coordinating with us. And certain, in particular, I think California has been terrific  the relationship. New York has been really good. Weve had some really good relationships in terms of  especially the hotspots. And were focused on those hotspots. In some areas, we dont have no problem whatsoever, and we hope to keep it that way.Before I turn this over to our great Vice President to provide an update, I just want to express my appreciation for the hard work done by the people behind me and the people back in the various offices, including the fact that I just left the Oval Office. So we have some people there that are probably watching this or theyre just working. Were using the full power of the federal government to defeat the virus, and thats what weve been doing.Last week, we secured an initial 8.3 billion from Congress for the coronavirus, and that was quickly done and very efficiently done. And I want to thank all members of Congress.Yesterday, I declared a national emergency, which was a very big deal because it opened up avenues that we would never be able to open up without it. And it will make it more than  it will make more than 50 billion available to us immediately in disaster relief funds. And thats available for states, territories, and local governments. So that was really, really good.We also reached an agreement yesterday on a new legislative package that will provide strong support for American families and communities in dealing with the coronavirus. So it was done very, very bipartisan. It was  it was very nice to see it. Probably the cooperation  I want to thank Secretary of Treasury, Steve Mnuchin, who did a fantastic job and worked with Nancy Pelosi and their representatives. And it was really great. It worked out very well.And a lot of people are benefitting by a lot of  a lot of provisions in the bill, which theyre going to be discussing with you today. And the tremendous provision. So thats something that we should talk about.I was honored to see that the stock market  you were mostly there with us  set a record in a short period of time  over a 45minute period that we had the press conference yesterday in the Rose Garden. That was a record. Alltime record. I think we should do one of them every day, perhaps. How about every  how about five times a day? Well do one five times a day. But that was something to watch. And I had no idea. We walked back, I said, So how did that work out? They said, Sir, you just set a new record in the history of the stock market. So that was pretty good.And those great companies that were there, they couldnt have been too unhappy either, when you think about it, because theyre all very big, publicly listed companies. So they did a good job. And more importantly, theyre going to do a good job. When you look at CVS and Walmart, and all of the tremendous people that were there yesterday, these are the biggest and the best. And theyre opening up their facilities. Theyre opening up  theyre, right now, literally, working right now on opening  doing something thats never been done before, to the extent that were doing it. And so were very proud of them also.The bill provides for free coronavirus testing for all Americans who should be tested. So people that are getting tested are getting this free. They dont have to pay  because a lot of people said, Gee, its a lot of money. And it is. Its a  you know, its a pretty complex test actually, and it costs money. And its being provided free, so people dont have to worry about that.It also provides paid sick and family medical leave for those who need it, including for those who have the virus, for caregivers, and those looking after children affected by school closures. So thats all taken care of also. And well continue all of these different actions. We have other things planned.Were going to also be working with companies that are affected financially. Our country is in the best financial shape. Weve  its so different than in the past, over the years. If you look at some of the real big crises we had, it was financial problems and different things. We now are in very, very strong financial shape with all of the trade and all of the other things that weve been doing. Its been pretty amazing.We hope the Federal Reserve will finally get on board and do what they should do, because were doing things that they should be doing, frankly. And we can all do them together, but they should be much more proactive. Other boards and other countries and people representing those countries are taking a much more aggressive action than our Fed, for the most part.So wed like to see the  you know, if you look at central banks  yesterday, what they did  we want to see our Federal Reserve be much more proactive. Its important. But in the meantime, were doing things that  that are  that have been really well received. Now, I guess you saw that yesterday at the end of the day with what weve done.We have a lot of things to tell you, in terms of respirators, in terms of all of the different things. The masks are being made by the millions. Millions and millions. We have plenty now, but were ordering for the millions. Were ordering worstcase scenario. Always  we always say worstcase scenario. And thats where were going. So I just want to thank everybody.I think the press has been really  over the last 24 hours, I think the representation has really been very fair. For the most part, been very fair.Were all in this together. Its something that nobody expected. It came out of China, and its one of those things that happened. Its nobodys fault. We all  we all will solve this problem well solve it well.I think the American people have been incredible in the way theyve acted. Theres been  and if you look at companies and sports leagues and all of the things, what theyve done is  is just something very special, without being told, necessarily. In some cases, perhaps they were told, actually. But for the most part, they want to get it over with. They want to get it over with quickly and with very little death.As of this moment we have 50 deaths, which is  a lot of good decisions were made, or that number could be many times that. But thats based on a lot of good decisions, one or two in particular. You know that Europe was declared the hotspot yesterday, a big hotspot and number one. And we  we made a decision quite a bit prior to that, but we saw what was happening.But if you have any questions, this group will be very happy to do it. But I just want to say they have been  led by Mike Pence  they have been incredible, the job theyre doing. Theyre working 20 hours a day. This man is working 20 hours a day or maybe more. Is it more? I think its more. Tony has been working  Im just looking at this whole group. And weve created a number of new stars, including the gentleman right behind me. I watched him the other day. It was such a fantastic job you did, and I really appreciate it.But theyre going to be answering questions. And we have a lot of new information, so I think youll find it very interesting. And Ill be going back to the Oval Office.Thank you very much.