James S. Brady Press Briefing Room543 P.M. EDTTHE VICE PRESIDENT Good afternoon. Weve just completed todays meeting of the White House Coronavirus Task Force and I couldnt be more proud of the efforts of the men and women standing behind me or all of those standing behind them.President Trump said from early on that this would be a wholeofgovernment approach. And today gives evidence of the fact that it is also a wholeofAmerica approach. Were bringing the full resources of the federal government and the full resources of  of this great economy and our great business sector to bear in protecting the American people and protecting American families.A few updates from today As we continue to expand testing availability across the country  testing is now available at all state labs. By the end of this week, there will be more than 4 million more tests made available in jurisdictions around the country 1 million are already in place. And thanks to the good work of our top commercial labs that the President Trump brought together yesterday, LabCorp and Quest are in the process now of distributing and marketing coronavirus tests all across America. And were working with state local officials to ensure that that happens as rapidly as possible.But as the testing is expanding, we wanted to make sure the American people knew that testing was available to them and that cost would not be a barrier.Today, President Trump assembled the top health insurance executives in America. And, as we announced earlier today, all of our major health insurance companies have now joined with Medicare and Medicaid and agreed to waive all copays cover the cost of all treatment for those who contract the coronavirus theyve committed to no surprise billing and theyve committed to encourage telemedicine.It was a year ago that Medicaid actually expanded to pay for telemedicine. Medicare pays for telemedicine. So now, for seniors who may think that they are either at risk or have contracted the disease, they can get medical advice without having to go to the doctor or go to an emergency room.I know I speak for President Trump when I say how grateful we are to see our health insurance industry step forward to meet this need so that  that no American should be concerned about  about being able to pay for or afford the cost of a coronavirus test if they deem and their doctor deems it to be appropriate and necessary.The President also went to Capitol Hill today to meet with members of the United States Senate Republican caucus. There, he talked about an economic package, including a call  hes calling for payroll tax relief. And I think, most important to the Presidents heart, we want to make sure that hourly workers  hardworking, bluecollar Americans that may not have paid family leave today  that small and mediumsized businesses in America would be afforded the resources to provide paid leave so that no one would feel that they have to go to work if they might be infected or if they might have been exposed to the coronavirus.We had a good reception on Capitol Hill. Our legislative teams have fanned out. Were going to be working with Republican and Democrat leadership to move an economic package. Larry Kudlow will be reflecting on that in just a few moments.We also talked about what are known as N95 masks and were working  Senator Deb Fischer and others have important legislation that would extend temporary liability protections so that masks that are made for industrial use could be sold to hospitals to ensure that our healthcare workers are properly protected and outfitted. And were grateful for growing bipartisan support for that measure, and were going to be working earnestly with Republicans and Democrats to move a reform that would make more N95 masks available.Im also pleased to report that we did receive, this afternoon, a comprehensive proposal from the cruise line industry  a proposal that includes advanced screening, improving medical services on ships, providing for airlift evacuation and landbased care at the expense of the cruise lines for anyone that might be not only infected with the coronavirus, but with any serious illness. Well be reviewing that in the next 24 hours. The Presidents objective is for us to make cruise lines safer, even as we work with the cruise lines to ensure that  that no one in our particularly vulnerable population is  is going out on a cruise in the near future.Im going to recognize Dr. Fauci to talk about where we are.And Dr. Birx will give us some research that shes done on the scope. Well have other updates. But let me say once again This is a wholeofgovernment approach and from early on, President Trump has insisted that our  that our government at the federal level, all of our partners at the state level work in concert to protect the American people.And, as we stand here today, the risk to the average American of contracting the coronavirus remains low, but were absolutely determined to give every American the tools and the information that they need to protect themselves, their families, their  their workplace, their schools. And  and were going to work together. Were going to work together to see our way through this. And  and working with leaders in both parties in Congress, working with  with leaders at the state level all across this nation, Im confident we will.With that, Dr. Tony Fauci for an update on the status.DR. FAUCI Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Just to give you a very brief sketch of what we do every day The cases continue to increase globally. Were parti  paying particular attention to the cases in Europe in Italy and France, in which were starting to see that up at the same time as the relative number of new cases come down from China. What were seeing in Europe is that Europe is in that upslope. So thats something that is expected. Thats the way these kinds of outbreaks go. This is not a surprise to anybody if you look at the history of infectious diseases outbreaks.In the United States, we continue to have new cases. As of this morning, there was 712, I believe, with 27 deaths. Guaranteed, by the time of this evening, thats going to be up and therell be several more. And tomorrow, therell be several more.So we realize that this is something obviously that weve been saying all along that were taking very seriously. Now, the question is, what are we going to do about that? And there are a number of things that one can do in order to blunt it. If you look at the curves of outbreaks  you know, they go big peaks and then they come down. What we need to do is flatten that down. That would have less people infected that would ultimately have less deaths. You do that by trying to interfere with the natural flow of the outbreak.So what were saying today is that although we keep coming in and saying, appropriately, that as a nation, the risk is relatively low, there are parts of the country right now that are having community spread in which the risk there is clearly a bit more than that. And you know the places you know, Washington State, California, New York, and Florida.But what I want to talk to you about today, just for a moment or two, is that we would like the country to realize that, as a nation, we cant be doing the kinds of things we were doing a few months ago. That it doesnt matter if youre in a state that has no cases or one case, you have to start taking seriously what you can do now. That if and when the infections will come  and they will come. Sorry to say, sad to say they will. But when youre dealing with an infectious disease  you know, we always have that metaphor that people talk about that Wayne Gretzky, you know, he doesnt go where the puck is, hes going where the puck is going to be. Where we want to be where the infection is going to be, as well as where it is.So what we have here  if you could see that here what  is here is that if you go toCoronavirus.gov remember when Dr. Birx, yesterday, mentioned some of the things that we put together? These are really simple keeping the workplace safe, keeping the home safe, keeping the school safe, and keeping commercial establishments safe. This should be universal for the country. Everyone should be doing that, whether you live in a zone that has community spread or not. When you have community spread, you obviously are going to ratchet up the kinds of mitigations that you have. But at a minimum, this is the minimum that we should be doing. So everybody should say, All hands on deck. This is what we need to do.So Ill stop there and later Ill be happy to answer questions.THE VICE PRESIDENT Thank you, Dr. Fauci.Dr. Birx?DR. BIRX Thank you, Mr. Vice President, and thank you, Dr. Fauci, for that clarity. We continue to monitor the situation across the country and across the globe. And we are very fortunate  between Dr. Fauci and I, we have longterm contracts out there in many of these countries that are experiencing current outbreaks.We continue to review all the scientific literature to look for insights and to really determine whos at the greatest risk. And thats why weve talked to you about people with immunodeficiencies at any age, people with medical conditions, and the elderly, and how important it is all of us to take these precautions in the household to protect others because we have circulating flu and other respiratory diseases at this time.We all have to act like all of those diseases  any respiratory disease can be transmitted to others. And as we said yesterday, were hoping that decreases all the respiratory disease were experiencing.Finally, we got new reports out of China, who had nine pregnant women during an acute COVID infection and all nine were infected. Both  and they delivered while they were infected and all nine babies were healthy and the mothers were healthy. So we continue to look for data like that to be reassuring to the American public. At the same time, ensuring that every single person is participating in this response to this virus and taking those precautions that we should be taking every day.If we start doing this today, we will be ready next year for any of our respiratory diseases because I think well be able to show that these simple  simple household, simple work, simple school, simple business approaches across the country can change all of our respiratory diseases.So we thank you for getting the message out. We thank you for the participating and ensuring in your households and in households around America that were protecting all of those who need our support right now.THE VICE PRESIDENT Excellent. Thank you, Dr. Birx and Dr. Fauci. And this information is available atCoronavirus.gov.And as we said, we cant say often enough, the risks of contracting the coronavirus to the average American remains low. But for senior citizens with serious underlying chronic health conditions, the potential for serious consequences is very real. And make no mistake about it, by practicing these habits in your home, your school, and your business, youre not only protecting your health, but youre also protecting those that are most vulnerable.With that, for an update on our  the progress that President Trump made today with our health insurance companies, Id like to recognize Seema Verma.ADMINISTRATOR VERMA As the Vice President said, we had a terrific meeting with the insurance companies, a real example of a publicprivate partnership where they agreed to waive copays for testing, not do any surprise billing, and also cover the costs of the COVID virus associated costs.The other things that they did is they asked the President for more flexibility in Medicare Advantage plans and the President agreed to do that. And so today, we issued guidance to our Medicare Advantage plans that not only can they waive the costs for the tests, but they can also go further to removing prior author  authorization requirements. They can waive prescription refill limits. They can allow for mail delivery of prescription drugs and expand more access to telehealth services if they werent offering that in their plan.Also, at CMS, we continue to work with healthcare providers around infection control practices. We met with home health agencies and also hospitals, and today we issued guidance to dialysis facilities, as well as home health agencies around infection control.THE VICE PRESIDENT Theres been a great deal of attention about the Grand Princess. And HHS, working with the Coast Guard and with the Department of Defense, is currently working through disembarking American passengers, returning foreign nationals to their country. And I wanted to ask Secretary Azar to speak and update us on the progress.SECRETARY AZAR Thank you. So with regard to the Grand Princess, I wanted to first express our appreciation to Governor Newsom, to the Mayor of Oakland, the people of Oakland, the longshoremen, the stevedores whove helped with bringing it in and clearing the  clearing the dock area so that we can do all of our operations there. Weve got Admiral Abel here with us today, whos been leading the Coast Guard efforts. And then Deputy Secretary Biegun from State has done incredible work with our foreign partners to help with the repatriation of their nationals who are on board the ship.As of  our data that Ive got is as of noon, Pacific Time, today. So this will have increased quite substantially since  since my last update. But as of noon, Pacific, we had 548 individuals who have been offloaded from the ship. Two hundred and twentyeight Canadians are already back in Canada  flown there, I believe it was overnight. A hundred and seventyone Californians were taken by the government of California and are now at Travis  Travis Air Base. Twentysix individuals were sick, and theyre being  they are being treated for various  it could be from the novel coronavirus, it could also just be we had some frail individuals who are sick that needed treatment.Our goal is to get all of the citizens of California off today to be in the care of the California State Government, as well as to get the UK citizens off today so that they could be repatriated to the United Kingdom. We continue to work with other countries on all of those maneuvers. We will have nonCalifornia residents who will be in transport to the bases at Dobbins and at Lackland today, we hope, but  or tonight.So everything is progressing. It seems to be progressing well. Were using the highest isolation quarantine procedures, medical screenings possible to ensure the safety of not just the passengers but also of the local communities and all of the healthcare workers and others  emergency responders who are helping. So thanks to all of our partners for this  their help with this very complex operation.THE VICE PRESIDENT Yeah. Well done. Good report. And let me echo the Secretarys appreciation to Governor Gavin Newsom, the State of California, the City of Oakland. It has literally been a seamless partnership. Everyone on that ship will be tested, isolated, and quarantined as appropriate and provided with treatment. The crew on the ship, other than those who were ill, will be quarantined on the ship offshore. But it really represented the kind of partnership and cooperation from every level of government that  that every American, I know, is grateful to see.With that, on the economic front Larry Kudlow.MR. KUDLOW Thank you, sir. All right, yesterday, in a meeting in the Oval, the President  acknowledging there are going to be challenges on the health and economic side, he mentioned that he intended to bring the full power of the federal government to deal with these challenges. And accordingly, as the Vice President said, up at the Republican Senate luncheon today  and he mentioned it in this room yesterday  President Trump has unveiled his proposals  strong proposals  for a temporary payroll tax cut holiday, which I think he would prefer to last through the end of the year.Also, administratively, as Treasury Secretary Mnuchin and others have suggested, we are trying to  we will use assistance to unpaid sick leave people  a very important point also small and medium businesses  another important point. And also, possibly, to some distressed industries or sectors in the economy, maybe tax deferral might be a useful tool and other means.So this is strong, acrosstheboard package. We are consulting with leaders in the House and the Senate, with respect to this package and particularly the payroll tax holiday.Let me just say, coming into this difficult period, the economy is in fundamentally in good shape. We saw a blockbuster jobs report last Friday. Today, for example, the Small Business Confidence Index  the NFIB Business Confidence Index registered a very strong number, keeping its nearrecord high. The unemployment remains low at 3.5 percent. Other indicators look pretty good. We had a lot of momentum in the first quarter. Good thing.I recognize the challenges and that is why we are proposing these fiscal measures to combine with monetary measures that have already taken.And again, I will repeat the Presidents words  it just struck me, as his determination  he intends to bring the full power of the federal government to deal with these health and economic challenges.THE VICE PRESIDENT Thank you, Larry. Well said. And a word from Surgeon General Jerome Adams. General.SURGEON GENERAL ADAMS Good evening, everyone. As Surgeon General, whether its opioids or cigarettes or the coronavirus, my job is to help the American people understand how to live a healthy life. And Im asking all of you  Im imploring all of you to help share my prescription for America to overcome this coronavirus situation that were in.There are three parts to it. Number one Know your risk. As youve heard many times but its still important to impress upon America If you are immunocompromised, if you have chronic medical conditions, if you are over the age of 60, you are at higher risk. If you are a child or young adult, you are less likely to be impacted by the coronavirus.Number two  the second part of the prescription Know your circumstances. Are you in an environment where you can telework?Are you planning on going to large gatherings like church? Do you live in a community that is being particularly impacted by the coronavirus? And you can find out this information from your state or local health department. Does your state have a hotline that you can call into to help you assess symptoms? Again, knowing your circumstances.And number three, and this is the most important part Know what you can do to stay safe. And we have really leaned intoCoronavirus.gov. Please send people to that website. Weve put the tools on there for individual groups, specific audiences, so that people can understand how to stay  stay safe. If we follow this prescription, we will  we will overcome the coronavirus.As Dr. Fauci said, we will see more cases. Unfortunately, we are likely to see more deaths. We have not hit the peak of this epidemic quite yet, but if we follow this prescription, then we will decrease the number of people who are impacted, we will decrease the number of people who will die, and we will more quickly get to the end of this situation. Thank you.THE VICE PRESIDENT Great job. Great job. Questions? Please.