James S. Brady Press Briefing Room634 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. We just attended a very important task force meeting on the virus that everybody is talking about all over the world. No matter where you go, thats whats on peoples minds. And we are going to take care of, and have been taking care of, the American public and the American economy.We are going to be asking tomorrow  were seeing the Senate. Were going to be meeting with House Republicans  Mitch McConnell, everybody  and discussing a possible payroll tax cut or relief, substantial relief  very substantial relief. Thats a big  thats a big number.Were also going to be talking about hourly wage earners getting help so that they can be in a position where theyre not going to ever miss a paycheck. Were going to be working with companies and small companies, large companies  a lot of companies  so that they dont get penalized for something thats not their fault. Its not their fault, its not our countrys fault.This was something that we were thrown into and were going to handle it, and we have been handling it very well. The big decision was early when we shut down our borders. Were the first ones ever to do that. Weve never done that in our country before. Or wed have a situation that would be a lot more dire.Also, were going to be seeing Small Business Administration and creating loans for small businesses. Were also working with the industries, including the airline industry, the cruise ship industry  which, obviously, will be hit. Were working with them very, very strongly. We want them to travel. We want people to travel to certain locations and not to other locations at this moment. And hopefully that will straighten out sooner rather than later. But were working with the industries, and in particular those two industries.Were also talking to the hotel industry. And some places, actually, will do well, and some places probably wont do well at all. But were working also with the hotel industry.But the main thing is that were taking care of the American public, and we will be taking care of the American public.And I really appreciate the professionals behind me and the professionals actually behind them, in a different room. We have a tremendous team, and its headed up by our great Vice President, Mike Pence. And I want to thank Mike because hes been working 24 hours a day, just about. He has been working very, very hard, very diligently, and very professionally. And I want to thank him, and I want to thank the team. And Ill have Mike say a few words.Thank you very much. Thank you. Mike? Please.THE VICE PRESIDENT Thank you, Mr. President. We just completed the days meeting of the White House Coronavirus Task Force. We had the opportunity to brief the President today on a broad range of issues.And once again, because of the unprecedented action that President Trump took in January  suspending all travel from China establishing travel advisories for portions of South Korea and Italy establishing screening of all direct flights, all passengers from all airports from Italy and South Korea  we have  we have bought a considerable amount of time, according to all the health experts, to deal with the coronavirus here in the United States.In fact, as I stand before you today, the risk of contracting the coronavirus to the American public remains low, and the risk of serious disease among the American public also remains low.With that being said, the President did deploy not just a wholeofgovernment approach, but also a wholeofAmerica approach. And last week, at the Presidents direction, we met with leaders in industries, from nursing homes to airlines, pharmaceutical companies, commercial labs, and its had great, great impact.Pharmaceutical companies are already working, literally around the clock, on the development of therapeutics that will be medicines that can bring relief to people that contract the coronavirus. And I know how pleased the President was to learn that the commercial labs in this country, led by companies like LabCorp and Quest, have already brought a test forward and are taking that to market effective today.This week, at the Presidents direction, well be meeting with hospital CEOs, health insurance CEOs, and all  building on top of what the President will be announcing tomorrow with regard to economic relief for working Americans.We also met today in a conference call with 47 of Americas governors. We were able to brief them on the latest  the progress that weve made. We were able to confirm with them that testing is now available in all state labs in every state in the country. Over a million tests have been distributed. Before the end of this week, another 4 million tests will be distributed. But as I said before, with the deployment of the commercial labs, we literally  we literally are going to see a dramatic increase in the available  availability of testing, and thats all a direct result of the Presidents leadership.Today, in a few moments, we will  we will outline community guidance that Dr. Birx and Dr. Fauci will be publishing. At Presidents direction, were going to be providing guidance about how to keep your home safe, how to keep your business safe, how to keep safe and healthy at your school. And well be publishing that information and speaking about that.A brief word about the Grand Princess The Grand Princess has docked this afternoon in Oakland, California, at a commercial dock. Twentyfive children, we were happy to learn through the screening over the last two days  the 25 children on the ship are all healthy. Of the people that have contracted the coronavirus  21 in all  theyre being dealt with in proper isolation.Working with health authorities in California, we hope before the end of today to begin to disembark California residents to Travis Air Force Base in Miramar. Weve made arrangements with Canada and the UK to take their passengers back. Theyll be transported directly to the tarmac, charter flights home.And tomorrow, the remaining passengers will be transported, again, through very, very carefully controlled environments  buses out to the tarmac and flown to military bases in Georgia and Texas.All the passengers will be tested, isolated as appropriate, quarantined as appropriate. And I want to express appreciation to the Governor of California and his administration, the Governor of Georgia, the Governor of Texas, for their strong cooperation with us in resolving the issues around the Grand Princess.It has been a  it has been a partnership which the President directed us from the very beginning. And the process that Bob Kadlec will detail, and any questions in a few moments, continues to work and move forward.The remaining people on the ship  the crew itself will push off from the dock, and they will be quarantined and observed and treated shipboard. But the President made the priority to get  to get the Americans ashore, and were in the process of doing that, as well as returning the foreign nationals.Let me just say one other point As the President has spoken today to congressional leadership, one of the things that I informed the President that Ive been hearing from governors is the concern about hourly wage earners in this country feeling that they had to go to work, even if they were ill. And the President has tasked this economic team, and is working already with leaders in the Congress, to make sure that anyone is not  feels that theyre at risk of losing their job or losing a paycheck because they may contract the coronavirus.When we tell people, If youre sick, stay home, the President has tasked the team with developing economic policies that will make it very, very clear that were going to stand by those hardworking Americans, stand by those businesses large and small, and make it possible for us, as the President said from the very beginning, to put the health of America first.Well be available to take any questions on any of these topics, but, Mr. President, I didnt know if you wanted to speak a few more, in closing.THE PRESIDENT Well, I think what we will be doing is having a news conference tomorrow to talk about various things that were doing economically  therell be very major  including, obviously, the payroll tax cut.And so well be meeting again tomorrow afternoon. Well be coming back from the Senate, and we have a lot of very important meetings set up. And well have a press conference sometime after that, and well explain what were doing on an economic standpoint and from an economic standpoint. But they will be very  very dramatic. And we have a great economy, we have a very strong economy, but this came  this blindsided the world. And I think weve handled it very, very well. I think theyve done a great job. The people behind me have done a great job.So I will be here tomorrow afternoon to let you know about some of the economic steps were taking, which will be major. Thank you very much.