Pierce County Readiness CenterTacoma, Washington548 P.M. PSTGOVERNOR INSLEE Welcome to Washington State. Weve just finished very productive meetings with the Vice President. We in Washington are very appreciative of him being here today. He not only helped us with some issues today in our partnership with the federal government, but he has already helped us in recently removing some federal restrictions that would have made it more difficult to have testing for the coronavirus, which we appreciate.We had very helpful meetings, talking about our ability to increasing the testing capacity for the virus in the United States. We had some great discussions about some of our unemployment compensation issues to help more people who might be quarantined to be able to have assistance. We had discussions about the ability to have additional surge capacity in our medical delivery system and our ability to have immediate help from the federal government with one of our nursing homes and other capacity.And I think that he has been very remarkably adept at fielding our inquiries, and I know hes going to go back and help to continue this effort.I also want to compliment his agency directors, who have been assistance as much personally to me, giving us some additional scientific information. So I think we have a good partnership between the state of Washington and the federal government, and Im very appreciative of him being here in such short order. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.THE VICE PRESIDENT Thanks, Governor Inslee. And to your outstanding healthcare team  Dr. Wiesman  it is good to be here. Washington State is on the frontlines of the coronavirus in America, and the people of Washington State should be proud of your state and local leadership, the healthcare leadership, the first responders. The way youve come alongside families that have been impacted has really represented the very best standard of care. And all of Americas hearts are with the people of Washington State today.Governor Inslee, as I told you, President Trump wanted me to be here to ensure the people of Washington State that we are with you and that the full resources of the federal government will continue to be brought to bear as people across the Seattle area and across Washington State deal with the coronavirus.I do want to  I do want to commend, Governor Inslee, your teams effort and the seamless partnership that was forged from the very beginning between our administration and your administration here at the state level.Dr. Wiesman just informed me that he literally speaks to the head of the CDC every day, multiple times a day. Weve had personnel on the ground, literally, since the first corona case was detected here in Washington State.And President Trump wanted me to be here to talk to the people that are on the ground, the emergency center earlier today, to talk to policymakers here to ensure that we continue to provide that level of support.Im also pleased to be joined by so many members of Washingtons delegation to the Congress of the United States. The good news was today that the United States Senate passed, as the House of Representatives did yesterday, legislation that will provide nearly 8 billion in support.And I want to thank these members of Congress for their efforts  swift and bipartisan  exactly what the American people would expect in a moment like this in the life of our nation.The resources, Governor, as we discussed, are not simply resources for federal agencies, but rather there is also considerable investment available for states, like Washington, that are dealing with the coronavirus and also local healthcare providers. And were truly grateful for their efforts.We have, as the Governor just said, forged a strong partnership between the federal government and the state government, and well continue to look for ways to strengthen that in the days ahead.As I stand before you today, at this moment in time, we have at least 150 cases of coronavirus in the United States, including 70 confirmed cases in Washington State. Among the balance of those, some 49 are Americans that we returned home from China and from being on the cruise ship, the Diamond Princess.And, of course, as we stand here today, our hearts grieve the loss of 12 Americans. And particularly to those families here in Washington State, please know that you have the condolences of every American and youre on our hearts for your loss.While the coronavirus has spread in the Seattle area and new cases are detected around the country every day, the good news is that the vast majority of all of those who have contracted the coronavirus are recovering and doing well. The truth is that the risk of contracting the coronavirus to the average American remains low, according to all the health experts that I have here with me today and that are a part of our efforts at the national and state level.And while there may be more cases detected in this state and around the country as we continue to expand testing, most cases, the experts tell me, will be mild, will have flulike symptoms, and the Americans will  involved will fully recover.We have observed  as you have, Governor, here in Washington State  though, that seniors and Americans with underlying health conditions are particularly vulnerable to serious disease, and especially following the heartbreaking loss of life at the nursing home in Kirkland. But weve taken action to address that, just as you have here in Washington State.The Director of the Center for Medicaid Medicare and Medicaid Services, Seema Verma, is with me today. And this week, at President Trumps direction, we raised the standards for all nursing homes in America with regard to guidelines for preventing the spread of infectious disease. And also at the Presidents direction, all 8,000 of our inspectors at CMS nationwide will be focusing all of their inspection efforts at nursing homes on compliance with federal standards for preventing the spread of infectious disease. We want to make every effort to ensure that our seniors and our nursing homes are as safe as possible from the spread of the coronavirus.And on the subject of testing, weve been making steady progress. And I was encouraged to hear, Governor, that  that CDC has been able to provide kits to Washington State to meet your demand. But we know that while  while were meeting the demand of cases we know about today, we still have a ways to go to ensure the tests are available for any future cases and also for people across your state and across the country that may be concerned that they had contracted the coronavirus and want to obtain a test.But Im happy to report and have you confirm that the CDC has prioritized the delivery of coronavirus test kits to Washington State and to California. And I can assure you, Governor, we will continue to do so.But by the end of next week, CDCs test supplier  a company known as IDT  will distribute kits across the country that will enable roughly 1.2 million Americans to be tested for the coronavirus. Those kits will be delivered in just a matter of a few days. By the end of next week, another 4 million tests will be available. But its still just a beginning.As our nation continues to hear of new cases every day, we want to make sure that testing is available broadly. And to that end, President Trump brought together the leaders of the top commercial labs in the country. As we speak, at the Presidents urging, they have formed a consortium, and well be working with the leading commercial labs in America who tell us that, in a matter of weeks, through validation efforts that well do through the FDA, they could well be in a position where, in the notdistant future, your doctor, your local pharmacy, your local MedCheck will have access to a coronavirus.We have a ways to go, but President Trump said early on that we would bring a wholeofgovernment approach to confronting the coronavirus, and we have. But as the President met this week with the leaders of commercial laboratories, with the leaders of pharmaceutical companies, with leaders of other industries, the truth is Were bringing the wholeofAmerica approach to this and American businesses are stepping up in new and in renewed ways to make sure that we have the resources, including the testing and the development of therapies and, ultimately, in a year and a half, we hope, the development of a vaccine for the coronavirus. And every American should be grateful for that.With regard to the tests themselves, once again, CMS has already made the changes necessary that  that a coronavirus test is today now eligible for coverage under Medicare and Medicaid. And well be working with these members of Congress to ensure that coronavirus testing is included as an essential health benefit and therefore is covered by all the private insurance in the country as well.There may still be gaps. Well work with policymakers to ensure that the coronavirus is available for anyone who is concerned or suspected to have been exposed. But were making great progress in ensuring that this  that this test is available broadly to people across the country.For uptodate information on the status of the coronavirus, on best practices for preventing its spread, keeping your own health and your familys health secure, you can go to coronavirus.gov for the latest information from the Centers for Disease Control.Our message to families all across the state of Washington is simply this Were with you. We are here to help. And were going to stay with you every step of the way until the state of Washington and America sees our way through the coronavirus.We are making progress. As I mentioned, federal assistance was approved by the United States Senate. President Trump is expected to sign the legislation tomorrow as he visits the CDC in Atlanta.In that same spirit, Im grateful to report that, on Air Force Two today, through the efforts of HHS, Governor, weve delivered 100,000 N95 respirators, over 100,000 surgical masks, more than 2,500 face shields, and thousands of disposable gowns and gloves to assist in making those resources available.And also, were truly grateful that a leading research company made more than 200 doses of an experimental therapeutic medication available for people that are struggling and having severe difficulty with coronavirus. And we have a commitment that those medicines will continue to be made available on a daily basis.With that, Id like to introduce the head of the Centers for Disease Control, Dr. Bob Redfield, for the latest information and your best counsel to the people of the state of Washington.DR. REDFIELD Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First, what I would like to say is that I am really grateful to be here to express CDCs appreciation for the dedication and efforts of the public health community and the people here in Washington as you begin to confront and continue to confront this outbreak.I would also want to underscore whats important to all the citizens of this state. I want them to have great confidence in the judgment and leadership of their governor and their health department.Right now, the state of Washington is really  as the Vice President said, its the tip of the spear. And we are all here to commit CDCs full support to assist you and work together to confront the challenges that this brings.We implemented, at the beginning, very aggressive public health measures together to try to slow the spread in our country. Youre now at a stage where were beginning to see community transmission. And I just want to say, again, that its a privilege that we have, at CDC, to be able to partner with, really, the strongest public health system that we have in this nation, within the state of Washington.We need to continue to be committed to the importance of early case recognition. And I want people to realize that when new cases are identified, thats actually a success, not a failure. It shows that your public health community is out there doing their job with isolation and contact tracing.And as we have one of the challenges to understand how do you really understand how to impact this virus for individuals that dont actually have symptoms, I will argue one of the most important ways to do that is practice public health and do early case recognition, isolation, and contact tracing. Its through the contact tracing that youre going to begin to identify that group.I also just want to finish by saying that were here, in partnership with your health department, to actually learn  because this state is now, as I said, the tip of the spear as we begin to reinforce those control measures that we just talked about for containment, but begin now to implement different mitigation strategies in the population.And Ill close by just reechoing what the Vice President said that the overall risk of coronavirus to the American public at this point is low. Were here to work in partnership to help the state of Washington begin to effectively continue to address, as we confront, the community spread thats here.And again, I want the individual citizens of this state to recognize and have the confidence that they have, in my view, the best public health community in our nation to lead this effort.Thank you very much.THE VICE PRESIDENT Governor Inslee, as the President said, were all in this together. And Im truly grateful for the opportunity to spend time with your team, to have the opportunity to spend time with Mayor Durkan, with King County officials, to hear a report from the ground.We have  we have a ways to go, but I know well get there together, and I know that we will  we will continue to build on this seamless partnership between the national government, your administration here in the state of Washington, and all the extraordinary health officials, healthcare providers, and first responders that, each and every day, in the weeks leading up to today, have been there for the people in this community.As the President likes to say, this is an allhandsondeck effort, and well continue to bring the full resources of the federal government to support your efforts in the Seattle area and across the state of Washington. And well get through this together.Thank you, Governor.GOVERNOR INSLEE Will you stand for some questions, Mr. Vice President?THE VICE PRESIDENT Certainly.