THE VICE PRESIDENT We just completed another meeting of the White House Coronavirus Task Force. Its been a very busy and productive day here at the White House.President Donald Trump has no higher priority than the safety and health of the American people. And the President has directed our task force  employing the full resources of the federal government, in full partnership with state and local health authorities  to make that priority a reality.As I stand before you today, we have more than 100 coronavirus cases in the United States. That is counting domestic cases and cases of coronavirus of Americans that were returned from China or the Diamond Princess. Im pleased to report that most of those who contracted coronavirus within our care are continuing to recover. But, sadly, we received word today that another American has passed away and their family has our deepest condolences.That being said, thanks to the Presidents strong leadership and the professionalism of all of our federal agencies  Health and Human Services, CDC  and state and local health officials all across this country, the risk to the American public of contracting the coronavirus remains low.To be clear If you are a healthy American, the risk of contracting the coronavirus remains low. But it is still a good idea to engage in commonsense practices that are always recommended this time of year. So, as someone who has a mother who is 87 years of age, and who has married kids living around the country, a brief tutorial on prevention for yourself, for your family, and your loved onesIts a good idea to stay home when youre sick. Avoid close contact with people who are sick. Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth. Cover your cough or sneeze with tissue throw the tissue in the trash. Clean and disinfect frequently. Wash your hands with either disinfectant or with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.And let me say again, as weve said before Theres no need for Americans to buy masks. And the commonsense practices that I just described are all available atCDC.gov.Today, we  we had a series of meetings here at the White House and on Capitol Hill. We met with executives of the airline industry, the executives of commercial labs, executives of nursing homes. And our team also met with the Republican and Democrat caucuses in the House of Representatives. And we were pleased to learn that, just shortly ago, the House of Representatives passed a federal funding bill by a virtually unanimous margin. Itll now move to the Senate.And the legislation implements the Presidents vision to ensure that not only do our federal agencies have the support and resources that they need, but also that our state and local partners have their support. And in my conversations with governors all the way through this afternoon, I know theyre grateful for the bipartisan spirit that has characterized this funding bill and well continue to work through that process.As President Trump said, were all in this together. And he deployed a wholeofgovernment approach, but, thanks to the Presidents leadership, it has actually developed into a wholeofAmerica approach, and the meetings today with industry leaders is a reflection of that.As Dr. Birx will  will indicate in just a few moments with some of the data that were evaluating from around the world, it does appear that the elderly are the most vulnerable and especially those serious health issues.At the Presidents direction, as a result, Seema Verma will describe that the Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services has issued new guidelines for nursing homes nationwide. We have raised the bar regarding infectious disease control in our nursing homes.And in addition, Administrator Verma will explain how we are going to focus all of our inspection resources for the foreseeable future on compliance with infection control standards.Generally, we  we monitor our nursing homes for abuse and neglect. But at the Presidents direction, were going to focus exclusively on ensuring that those who are in nursing homes  people operating the nursing homes, like many of the CEOs that we met with today  are complying with the new standards to keep our elderly safe.The President also met today with airline executives and Ill reiterate, as the President said, our profound gratitude to our partners in the airline industry. They have worked with us in, as we say, flowing Americans through particular airports, the screening. Were working very closely with the airlines on contact information. If a person is tested as positive for the coronavirus, were working with the airlines to get all the information not just about that person, but about who they sat next to and who else was on the flight. And the President and I are very grateful.As we announced yesterday, Im pleased to report that, as of yesterday morning, in addition to the travel ban from China  weve suspended all travel coming in from China, weve suspended all travel coming in from Iran, and even foreign nationals who visit either one of those countries are barred from coming into this country for 14 days.We also established a travel advisory for Italy  portions of Italy and portions of South Korea over the weekend. But even as importantly, as of yesterday morning, we fully implemented a screening process. All direct flights from all airports in South Korea and Italy are now being subject to multiple screens before passengers board to come to the United States of America.State Department worked very vigorously to bring that about and were grateful for the cooperation with the governments of Italy, the governments of South Korea, as well as our airline partners in making that a reality.Finally, with regard to testing, we had a meeting today that gave us great hope for great progress in the near future on expanding testing across the country. We have a ways to go yet, and Im pleased to report, as weve been able to convey to state governments  governors around the country  is that, thanks to the good work with the FDA and Dr. Steve Hahn, who is with me here today, now all state laboratories, all university laboratories at the state level, can conduct coronavirus tests without any additional assets or resources from the federal government. They have the FDAapproved tests they can conduct the test all across the country in all the states.Beyond that, as we announced, through the efforts of HHS, 2,500 kits of tests are going out this week that  2,500 kits including tests has gone out this week. Thats roughly 1.5 million tests that will be available this week. Well continue to build on that number.But perhaps most significantly, thanks to Dr. Birxs efforts and leadership, we brought together, today at the White House, the leaders of all of the largest commercial laboratories in this country  companies like Quest that have vast capabilities, logistics and testing capabilities. And we were pleased to report today that they have created a consortium to share information and to share resources and literally have told us that, as they go through what is called the validation process on testing that, by next week, individual companies will be able to do, as they said to me, thousands of tests of coronavirus if they are needed and required, and many, many multiples more of that in the notdistant future.Our objective here, as Dr. Birx raised with the task force is weve got hospitals in affected areas and those that are requesting that have kits  weve got universities and state labs that now can perform the test on a requested basis. But our objective, ultimately, and as quickly as possible, is to have tests made through these commercial laboratories and commercial providers that your local doctor, your CVS, your MedCheck is able to have a coronavirus test. And that isnt there yet were working to make that a reality.But again, its one more example  its not just a wholeofgovernment approach its a wholeofAmerica approach. And whether it be our nursing home industry, whether it be our airline industry, whether it be our commercial laboratories, I can speak on behalf of President Trump and our entire task force when I say we are profoundly grateful for the spirit thats being reflected by companies all across the United States of America, grateful for the leadership at the state level. And the American people should be confident that that spirit of partnership is going to continue to drive this at every level as we work our way through dealing with the coronavirus in the United States.With that, Im going to recognize Dr. Deborah Birx for her comments.DR. BIRX Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good evening. Over the  over the last 12 hours, weve been able to receive information, both from South Korea and Italy, adding to our China information. And its as we thought The elderly and preexisting conditions have a more serious illness when confronted with the coronavirus.Reassuringly, in South Korea, no one has died under 30. This is reassuring to us. And the median age in Italy was 81, of those who succumbed. Those who became ill, the median age was 60.So we find this data reassuring but it also hashas really caused us to focus on the Americans who might be most vulnerable. So were focusing resources, attention, and all of our capacity to ensure those who have preexisting conditions and those who are elderly have access to the best prevention and treatment options.The prevention options flow right through all of us to ensure that we have good protective hygiene for our elderly clients around the globe.Thank you.THE VICE PRESIDENT Thank you.Seema?ADMINISTRATOR VERMA Thank you. And as you heard, because of the risk for our nations seniors, we are doubling down on our efforts. Today, we put out three memos. One was to hospitals about triaging and placement for patients with suspected or confirmed coronavirus. We also put out some information to nursing homes about limiting visitors to nursing homes, monitoring staff. And then, finally, we put out some information to our state surveyors that are going to be surveying our nations nursing homes and hospitals around infection control.So all of that information went out this morning.THE VICE PRESIDENT Very good. Thank you, Seema.CDC. Bob Redfield.DR. REDFIELD Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think what Id like to highlight today is that  first, echo what the Vice President started with when he was giving the American people the advice that he did as he went through that we do have listed out on our CDC websiteCDC.gov.It really is very important, its very pragmatic about washing your hands 20 seconds in soap and water or using the other disinfectants. Obviously, training yourself tocover your sneeze or cough either in your elbow or with a Kleenex that you will dispose of. These are very important things. Working hard not to touch your face.I think the most important thing for many of those individuals that might be a little type A If you get sick, stay home. Youre not helping your colleagues by going to work sick.And again, I think these are just very pragmatic. Weve listed them. Theyre absolutely no different than what we ask the American public to do for the flu.The second thing I would like to do is continue to get the help from you to get those messages out. The one thats the most important that the Vice President also talked about is the role of masks. We need these N95 masks for the healthcare workers that are taking care of these patients. We do not recommend them to be used by the general public.And again, you all  if you tell the stories  are able to be great communicators of that, so that the American public gets accurate information and gets good guidance from your experts that youll reach out to for your stories. So thats what I would ask you to do.And Ill reiterate what the Vice President said at the beginning that although were continuing to see new community cases in this nation, the overall risk to the American public at this time still remains low.Thank you.THE VICE PRESIDENT Thank you very much.Dr. Fauci?DR. FAUCI Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Just to reiterate what was said by several of our colleagues here is that we make policy recommendations and analysis of what were going to recommend based on accumulation of data. Data is very important. What Dr. Birx just told you is data is that underscores some of the things that weve been telling you.You know, when you talk about risk  you know, risk is something thats vague to people. And weve said many a time, if you talk about risk of infection throughout the country, its a low risk. If you talk about someone who is infected  and we do have infected people in this country. Youve heard that from Dr. Redfield. You understand the situation that we have in Seattle.If you do get infected, if youre infected as  taking Seattle as the microcosm of that  it is exactly what Dr. Birx said The risk of getting into difficulties is very heavily weighted towards people with underlying conditions and people with the elderly, where the young people  and there will be an exception here or there, the same way we see with influenza  but the risk for a young person who gets infected to getting into trouble is really low, based on a lot of data thats coming out of foreign countries, particularly out of China.THE VICE PRESIDENT Great. Thank you, Dr. Fauci.Dr. Carson?ADMINISTRATOR CARSON I want to thank the Vice President and the President for very aggressive and careful leadership. Now, I was involved throughout my neurosurgical career with a lot of very, very complex cases and dealt with a lot of renowned physicians, but I must say the people on this task force are extremely impressive. Have been considering all the various different possibilities  outlining scenarios for all the possibilities that can occur. And its very comforting  and recognize that the risk to a healthy adult still remains quite low, largely because of the aggressive actions that have been taken and are continuing to be taken every day.And just one last point and that is The pharmaceuticals, who normally are rivals, have worked together voluntarily. Wouldnt that be a great lesson for the politicians?THE VICE PRESIDENT Great.Quick informational announcement Ill be traveling with many members of the task force to Minnesota tomorrow. Well be visiting 3M, which is poised to literally begin manufacturing millions more masks for our healthcare workers. And then well be traveling on to Washington State.Well be meeting with Governor Inslee and with his health team to ensure that the full resources of the federal government are being brought to bear in support of their efforts to protect the health of the people across the Seattle area.So, with that, let me start right here.