THE VICE PRESIDENT Good afternoon, everybody. We just completed todays meeting of the White House Coronavirus Task Force. As you know, the President spoke this morning to county officials. And I want to remind everyone, as the President did today, that when it comes to health issues, state and local health authorities are in the lead, and the President reflected on that today.The President also traveled with Dr. Fauci and the Secretary to the National Institute of Health and had a briefing there. For our part, I was on Capitol Hill. This team briefed the Republican Senate caucus, and we were invited to and briefed the Democrat Senate caucus.Tomorrow well be on the House side. Our schedule is still firming up in the course of the day. But we had the opportunity to have a fulsome discussion about policies, and not just limited to the supplemental but, very broadly, dealing with the issue of the coronavirus in the country. And we were grateful for the opportunity to appear before both of those caucuses.Let me give you just a couple of topline numbers. At this point, we are at 77 domestic cases of coronavirus. Sadly, Washington State confirmed three additional deaths today. Our condolences go to the families of those that were lost. That puts us at nine deaths, domestic. And they were individuals at either in a nursing home or who had been critically ill. And their families have our condolences.We are at 13 states, plus New York City  14 total jurisdictions at this point  where we have coronavirus cases currently operating.Ive had conversations today with the governor of Illinois and  as well as the governor of Washington State, and good and productive conversations. And were extremely grateful for the leadership the governors across the country and their health departments are providing in this instance.Today, a couple of decision points from the White House Coronavirus Task Force. Today, we will issue new guidance from the CDC that will make it clear that any American can be tested with no restrictions, subject to doctors orders. Several governors said to me that there was an impression that the test would not be administered to people who were only mildly symptomatic. We are issuing new guidance, effective immediately, from the CDC that will make it clear that any clinician on health authority can administer the test.Testing was much a focal point of our efforts today. Dr. Birx and the Secretary and I convened a conference call with CEOs of some of the nations leading commercial laboratories. At this point, as the experts around me can describe, we are addressing the testing issue in a variety of ways. CDCapproved tests are moving out. We should have 2,500 kits out before the end of this week, which represents about 1.5 million tests. Those are being focused on hospitals in the areas that have been affected, as well as hospitals that have requested those tests.In addition to that, IDT is also spinning up their manufacturing for tests. I am told that therell be up to a million a week by next week. And in our meetings with the CEOs of commercial laboratories  and Im going to have Dr. Birx speak to this  we will be meeting tomorrow, here at the White House, with those CEOs, to clear away any potential barriers to them leaning all the way in.It was inspiring to be with the pharmaceutical companies yesterday who had already formed a consortium to begin to share resources and share information about meeting the need both with therapeutics and with the development of a vaccine. And well be challenging, as we did today, on the Presidents behalf  well be challenging the commercial laboratories in the country to spin up their capacity to collaborate and be able to process testing much more rapidly.Seema Verma will elaborate for you, but tonight, the task force has authorized the decision that were going to put all inspection resources, at the state level, focused on infectious disease, looking at nursing homes being a focal point of vulnerability and a vulnerable population. And Seema will clarify that with you, in addition to a variety of new sets of guidance that CMS is going to be issuing to nursing homes to really focus  focus our energy and our efforts on protecting the most vulnerable and where we see the locus of the coronavirus today.Finally, we today  OMB will be issuing a new guidance. We will be directing all federal government agencies to review internal travel policies and to adhere to State Department advisories with regard to international travel.Let me say again that, as Dr. Fauci reiterated again today, the threat of the coronavirus to the American public remains low. And as we continue to evaluate our circumstances, well continue to bring recommendations to the President for changes. But at this point, were simply directing a review of internal travel policies of all federal agencies and directing them to adhere to State Department advisories.Before I introduce the Secretary, let me also say tomorrow well be meeting with the CEOs of all the major airline carriers here. The topic will be contact tracing data and how we can  we have a strong relationship in the 11 airports that have been assisting us with screening personnel coming back into the country  we call them funneling airports  but were going to be meeting with CEOs tomorrow to talk about even greater cooperation from them.But again, I would just  I would just conclude by saying that tomorrow will be one week since the President asked me to lead the White House effort. And I couldnt be more proud or more impressed with the efforts at HHS, CDC, all of our agencies  NIH. And I couldnt be more proud to see the way states and local governments have had a seamless relationship with federal agencies in responding to this. And thats the relationship that we have forged.Well continue to build on that, and well continue to focus this week obviously on ensuring that, in the supplemental bill, we not only make sure that the federal agencies are properly funded, but as Ive told 50 governors and 3 territorial governors, were going to make sure that state agencies and local healthcare providers also have the resources to be able to meet their needs without hesitation, to lean into this effort. As the President said, this is all hands on deck. Were all in this together, and were going to continue to bring a wholeofgovernment approach.With that, let me recognize the Secretary and then Dr. Birx, and well each make some comments and take a few questions. Okay?Mr. Secretary?SECRETARY AZAR Great. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. And thank you all. As the Vice President mentioned, and Im sure well all reiterate, at this time, the threat to any individual American remains low from the coronavirus.As weve said, that can change rapidly. We are watching for that constantly. And, of course, with regard to any individual in contact with someone who is positive for the coronavirus, that risk is, of course, higher.Were working to keep that risk low. We are aggressively deployed. The CDC is out in the state of Washington, out in Santa Clara County in California, assisting with community mitigation steps, taking the lessons that we have both from our pandemic action plan, as well as from the Singapore and Hong Kong cases  what theyve been able to do and some of the steps theyve been able to get this situation more under control there.Im also very pleased to announce that the President of United States has donated his quarterly check to the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Health at HHS to fund the coronavirus preparedness and response activities. So, very pleased to receive that check today.We continue to make significant advances, in particular on removing barriers and moving forward in our response activities, basically using every day that we have gained by the Presidents strong actions to take advantage of those days to advance the ball.So, today, the President was up at NIAID, Dr.Faucis institute, where he was informed that, just yesterday, the Food and Drug Administration authorized the entry into clinical trial  phase one clinical trials of the vaccine candidate developed by NIAID scientists, who he got to meet today, and working with Moderna. So, hopefully, within again five to six weeks, that will be in humans and phase one clinical trials as a result of the FDA clearance.In addition, just last night, the FDA and CDC issued guidance with regard to these respirator masks, the N95 masks that you see that look more like cones on someones face  healthcare workers. Something people dont know is most of those N95 masks  the respirators, theyre called  in the United States are used in the construction trades and industrial trade. So, construction workers, miners.And yesterday, the FDA and CDC issued guidance under an emergency use authorization, making it clear that those industrial N95 masks are approved and appropriate for use by healthcare providers under the current exigent circumstances of the novel coronavirus. That will free up a massive amount of additional supply in the marketplace for our healthcare providers, even as we engage in procurement activities under the supplemental that we hope to get to produce even more of those.And then, finally, Dr. Hahn is going to be discussing with you some really important deregulatory work that we did. We think its rightsizing regulation with regard to diagnostic testing that we didon Sunday morningthat is unleashing massive capacity in the United States for lab developed testing. So with that, let me stop.Mr. Vice President, thank you.THE VICE PRESIDENT Great. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. And let me  and perhaps Dr. Fauci can amplify this in just a moment The American people do not have to buy a mask. The focus of our administrations efforts in this area, as I talked to Governor Pritzker today in Illinois, is we have a  we have a reserve of some 43 million masks.SECRETARY AZAR Masks overall.THE VICE PRESIDENT Were working on  Ill be traveling to 3M in Minnesota. The supplemental will contemplate a contract with that company and Honeywell and others to produce masks. And what we want to do is focus and make available the medical devices and protection for our healthcare workers.And so, whatever you can do to get the word out to the American people that it is not necessary for the American people to buy masks in the midst of the coronavirus spread in the country. The risk remains low. And Ill let the physicians describe that to you if theres questions.Let me introduce Dr. Birx for her comments.DR. BIRX Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, yesterday, we talked about not only the vaccine development but the work ongoing in therapeutics, which will be available much earlier, as well as novel work on monoclonal antibodies.For those of you who are in the audience who may be a little older, who used to get immunoglobulin before you traveled, its on that same principle. It can be used both as a protective, as well as a therapeutic. And so theres work going on for that.Today, we worked very hard and concentrated on the public  the private sector to really get them engaged in testing, because we know every family is concerned, particularly mixedgeneration families and households where theres both young children and the elderly that we know are at higher risk, potentially, for more sickness and actually more severe cases.And so we know that the private sector is going to be critical in getting those assays immediately available in more the pediatric clinics, the CVSs, and so that anybody who wants a test can access tests.Those are discussions we will have tomorrow and be able to really summarize on the movement towards making diagnostics more available, not only the nucleic acid diagnostics but the diagnostics that allow us to see who has been infected previously and really understand what the prevalence and incidence of this disease is  because its very difficult right now, when youre only looking at the sickest, to really understand how broad infections may or may not be.So were excited about that work thats going to happen tomorrow. Thank you.THE VICE PRESIDENT Okay. Very good. Thank you, Dr. Birx.Seema?ADMINISTRATOR VERMA Thank you. As the Vice President said, we will be focusing all of our state agency resources that are involved in inspecting nursing homes and other healthcare facilities to focus on infection control practices. Healthcare providers are going to play a very critical role in preventing the spread of the coronavirus, and CMS has a unique role in holding healthcare providers accountable for maintaining these essential health and safety standards.Were also issuing a call to action to hospitals, nursing homes, dialysis providers, and all healthcare facilities to review their infection control and emergency preparedness procedures to ensure that they are in compliance with CMS regulatory requirements.In addition, we are reissuing some guidance around infection control, around transfers between nursing homes and hospitals, encouraging and requiring them to consult with local healthcare officials. And were also issuing some guidance around screening visitors and healthcare workers.The third item that were releasing today is guidance to state inspectors who physically visit and evaluate healthcare facilities. The guidance provides information on the latest CDC protocols that they must follow when inspecting these facilities with suspected cases of respiratory illness. Inspectors should be coordinating with the CDC, CMS, and local healthcare officials. And they should also make sure that they have the appropriate protective  personal protective equipment.Weve also deployed  CMS has deployed two of our infection control specialists to CDC in Atlanta so that we can remain in lockstep with the CDC as the situation evolves. And this will allow us to coordinate our policies in real time.And finally, CMS is preparing to send a team of inspectors to Washington State to inspect the nursing home, dialysis facility, and hospital that was involved in the recent COVID19 cases so we can determine if all federal health and safety regulations were followed.And well be evaluating the situation daily and continue to provide updates. Thank you.THE VICE PRESIDENT Very good. Dr. Fauci?DR. FAUCI Ill just take a quick moment to just reiterate what was said about the visit to the NIH by the President. And we were able to map out and discuss  and something that we want to make sure everyone understands He saw it firsthand the process of vaccine development and why its very, very important that you do it in a stepwise fashion  even though were going more quickly than weve ever done that  and that is to go through a phase one trial to show that it is safe, and then even a phase two trial, which will take several months.So if youre looking at whats going to be available, the one dictum that you always know in medicine is First, do no harm. And weve got to make sure that if were going to protect the American people, if were going to be giving them a vaccine to otherwise healthy people to protect them, weve got to make sure we have a vaccine that is safe and that is proven to be effective. Not only just safe with any side effects, but there have been situations where even vaccines have actually made someone worse. So we got to make sure that we dont do that.Thats the reason why, even though were going at rocket speed, its not going to be at least a year to a year and a half before we have a product that we would be able to confidently say lets rev it up and give. Not the case with therapeutics, because therapeutics  youre giving it to someone who is already ill, and youre trying to save their life. That doesnt mean youre reckless with it it means that you have almost an immediate answer as to whether it works.So there are a couple of big trials that are going on in China, and there is one thats going on right here in the United States, testing a single drug. And therell be other drugs to do that, testing whether or not if you do standard of care versus standard of care versus a drug, whether or not that drug will actually be effective.I was asked the question outside when we landed from the NIH, When will that be? It will be when you get enough data, and the Data and Safety Monitoring Board  which is a group that independently looks at the data to determine are you actually making things worse or are you making things better. And they look at the data intimately.Someone asked me, Will that be two months, three months, five months? We dont know. It will be when the time comes when they look at the data, if  and this is a big if  dont misinterpret it  if a drug is effective, then you would make it available to individuals. Not guessing if its effective, but is it effective.Thank you.THE VICE PRESIDENT Thank you, Dr. Fauci.Dr. Hahn?DR. HAHN Good afternoon, and thank you for the opportunity to clarify some of the issues that have been in the press and concerns by the American people around the diagnostic testing.So, first of all, this is a test that is not what we call a pointofcare test. Its not like the strep test, where you go in a doctors office and you get that test done. This is a test where a swab is done and its sent to a laboratory, and in the laboratory they can perform that.Currently, this test is available in state public health labs, based upon the great work that CDC has done to develop this test. And the type of test is called a PCR test. So CDC developed this test and has been distributing this to state public health laboratories. And by current count, there are 46 state public health laboratories that have access to this test and can do this testing around the country.So, additional tests are being performed by a company  or being developed  not developed, but being manufactured by a company called Integrated DNA Technologies, IDT. Theyre working with CDC to increase the capacity of the CDCdeveloped test. Theyre giving those tests to CDC to further disseminate to the public health laboratories. They are also receiving orders from around the country  academic healthcare institutions, big hospitals, as well as commercial laboratories around the country  to further disseminate that test.Their estimate is that, by the end of this week, they will be able to have shipped 1 million tests to these nonpublic health laboratories. In subsequent weeks, they expect to escalate even further their manufacturing to higher numbers than that. We dont have estimates for that for you at this time.But we expect that the shipment of those tests, the nonpublic health labs, will significantly increase the capacity around the country for testing.On Saturday, you know we issued an emergency use authorization, which provided a deregulatory and  regulatory flexibility approach to whats called LDTs, or laboratory developed tests. That means X hospital in whatever state, whatever county, if theyre certified, can develop their own laboratory based test. They notify us when that occurs, and then 15 days later provide us the validation data.We use the same validation criteria. These are experienced laboratories, and weve already heard from four laboratories around the country that theyve developed these tests and have started using those tests. So you can see this is a layered approach to increase our capacity.And finally, FDA has been working with large commercial laboratories over the last three to four weeks, using our EUA approach, to help develop additional testing capacity.And as the Vice President mentioned, we met with members today, over the phone, of large laboratories to actually discuss their expanded capacity and to further increase the availability of these tests for Americans.So one last point What can the average American expect in terms of availability of this test? Well, first of all, as we mentioned, CDC will be issuing new guidance with respect to the fact that a physician should be able to order this test, based upon their own clinical assessment of that patient.And, secondly, we expect that their access  Americans access to this test will increase as more and more laboratories around the country have availability of this test. That should increase next week and further in the weeks ahead as more and more tests are available. Thank you.DR. REDFIELD Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think what I would  I want to make a few points. The first point I want to make is to recognize the, really,247work that the state and local, territorial, tribal health departments are doing.They have  theyre at the front lines responding to this, implementing the principles that weve talked about before that are so important for this public health approach early case identification, isolation of those individuals that are confirmed, and then aggressive contact tracing to try to identify additional cases. And then it repeats to isolation contact tracing.Were going to continue to see new cases diagnosed in the community across this country. But that really is a success, in my view, not a failure, of the incredible public health community that we have in these states and these local health departments, tribal and territorial.I also would like to make a comment to the American people. I want them to be prepared for the reality that there are going to be more cases in the community. But I want them to continue their daily lives. I want them to be mindful of the opportunity, again, to prepare themselves and their families as we see this. As I mentioned I want these new cases to be viewed as a success, in one sense, of our effective public health community, and not a failure.Finally, I just want to reemphasize what was said  one thing else that they can do. These protective masks, they really are for healthcare professionals that are taking care of these individuals that are sick in the hospital. We need all the American public to be part of  as the Vice President says, were all on the same team here. And one of the most important components of that team is the American public.And I want them to recognize If we felt there was a public health reason for them to be going out to develop masks, those of us here  Tony and myself  would tell you. But these masks are meant for the healthcare professionals that are at the frontlines trying to care these men and women that are quite sick.And lastly, I just want to reemphasize once more what was set already by the Secretary and the Vice President. Again, despite these new community cases, the risk at this time to the American public remains low.Thank you very much.THE VICE PRESIDENT Thank you. Well take a few questions. Thanks. Jim? Go ahead.