SECRETARY AZAR Well, good afternoon, everyone. Im Alex Azar, Secretary of Health and Human Services, and Chairman of the Presidents Task Force on the Novel Coronavirus.Im going to start by turning things over to Dr. Robert Redfield, the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, to discuss the current situation on the novel coronavirus. Dr. Redfield.DR. REDFIELD Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Let me give you an update on the current situation of the novel coronavirus. First though, I want to emphasize that this is a serious health situation in China, but I want to emphasize that the risk to the American public currently is low. Our goal is do all we can do to keep it that way.Second, I want to recognize the concern that the American public may have. And I want to reiterate what I just said Currently, the risk of the American public is low.As of today, there are nearly 9,700 cases in China, with more than 200 deaths. Additionally, currently there are another 23 countries that have confirmed, totally, 132 cases. This also includes 12 individuals who have been confirmed in six countries who did not travel to China.CDC has launched an aggressive public health response focused on early case recognition, isolation of those cases identified, and contact tracing around those individuals. This response is a layered response, which includes both targeted airport screening, as well as heightened education and awareness of the American healthcare community to be vigilant in ascertaining the possibility of recent travel to China when they are evaluating patients with upper respiratory tract infection.To date, we have confirmed six cases of this novel virus in the United States. The most recent case had no travel history to China, but was a close personal contact of one of the previous cases that we had identified through our aggressive contact tracing. In addition, there are currently 191 individuals that are under investigation.Once again, I want to emphasize that this is a significant global situation, and it continues to evolve. But I also want to emphasize again that the risk at this time to the American public is low.Mr. Secretary.SECRETARY AZAR Thank you, Dr. Redfield. I would now like to invite Dr. Anthony Fauci, the Director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease, to discuss the underlying rationale for the actions that I will be discussing after he concludes. Dr. Fauci.DR. FAUCI Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The concept thats underlying the action that youll hear about shortly is the issue of the unknown aspects of this particular outbreak. So let me enumerate just a few of these.I can start off by putting it into perspective by telling you I often get asked  we have an influenza outbreak here. We have about 8,000 deaths already. We have about 100,000 hospitalizations. Why are we paying such attention? And why are we doing the kinds of things were doing here right now?Well, the reason is, despite the morbidity and mortality with influenza, theres a certainty, for example, of seasonal flu. I can tell you all, guaranteed, that as we get into March and April, the flu cases are going to go down. You could predict pretty accurately what the range of the mortality is and the hospitalizations, as weve done over the years.The issue now with this is that theres a lot of unknowns. As you can see just from the media, the number of cases have steeply inclined each and every day. You know that, in the beginning, we were not sure if there were asymptomatic infection, which would make it a much broader outbreak than what were seeing. Now we know for sure that there are.It was not clear whether an asymptomatic person could transmit it to someone while they were asymptomatic. Now we know from a recent report from Germany that that is absolutely the case.There are a number of countries outside of China that have travelrelated cases. And now what were seeing is that there are secondary cases from them, and, as Bob mentioned, we also have that in this country. The WHO has issued, as you know, a Public Health Emergency of International Concern declaration.If you put all these things together, I underscore what Bob said We still have a low risk to the American public, but we want to keep it at a low risk. And because there are so many unknowns here, were going to take the action that the Secretary will describe, in a temporary way, to make sure we mitigate, as best as we possibly can, this risk. Thank you.SECRETARY AZAR Thank you, Dr. Fauci. Today, President Trump took decisive action to minimize the risk of the spread of novel coronavirus in the United States. Since taking office, President Trump has been clear His top priority is the safety of the American people. In addition to the steps that the doctors have outlined, we continue to operationalize a multilayered, crossagency, public health response.Following the World Health Organizations decision to declare the 2019 novel coronavirus a Public Health Emergency of International Concern, I have today declared that the coronavirus presents a public health emergency in the United States. The actions we have taken and continue to take complement  complement the work of China and the World Health Organization to contain the outbreak within China.In accordance with the declaration, beginning at 500 p.m., Eastern Standard Time Sunday, February the 2nd, the United States government will implement temporary measures to increase our abilities to detect and contain the coronavirus proactively and aggressively. Any U.S. citizen returning to the United States who has been in Hubei Province in the previous 14 days will be subject to up to 14 days of mandatory quarantine to ensure they are they are provided proper medical care and health screening.To be clear, this applies only to U.S. citizens who have been in Hubei Province in the past 14 days prior to their attempted entry into the United States.Any U.S. citizen returning to the United States who has been in the rest of Mainland China within the previous 14 days will undergo proactive entry health screening at a select number of ports of entry and up to 14 days of monitored selfquarantine to ensure theyve not contracted the virus and do not pose a public health risk.Additionally, the President has signed a presidential proclamation, using his authority pursuant to Section 212f of the Immigration and Nationality Act, temporarily suspending the entry into the United States of foreign nationals who pose a risk of transmitting the 2019 novel coronavirus.As a result, foreign nationals, other than immediate family of U.S. citizens and permanent residents, who have traveled in China within the last 14 days will be denied entry into the United States for this time.Once again, these actions will become effective at 500 p.m., Eastern Standard Time Sunday, February 2nd. These prudent, targeted, and temporary actions will decrease the pressure on public health officials screening incoming travelers, expedite the processing of U.S. citizens and permanent residents returning from China, and ensure resources are focused on the health and safety of the American people.I want to stress The risk of infection for Americans remains low. And with these and our previous actions, we are working to keep the risk low. All agencies are working aggressively to monitor this continually evolving situation and to keep the public informed in a constantly transparent way.The United States appreciates Chinas efforts and coordination with public health officials across the globe, and continues to encourage the highest levels of transparency.It is likely that we will continue to see more cases in the United States in the coming days and weeks, including some limited persontoperson transmission. The American public can be assured the full weight of the U.S. government is working to safeguard the health and safety of the American people.Id now like to invite Deputy Secretary of State Steve Biegun for an update.DEPUTY SECRETARY BEIGUN Good afternoon. And thank you, Secretary Azar. My name is Steve Biegun, and I am the Deputy Secretary of State, and I represent the State Department on the Presidents Novel Coronavirus Task Force.Let me describe briefly the role of the Department of State in the proceedings of this task force and our contributions. Our first responsibility is to monitor events on the ground in China where we have the presence of U.S. diplomats, and to give clear and accurate advice to American citizens and, in particular, American travelers considering visiting or staying in China.In this particular case, this includes identifying any health or safety risks to which they may be subjected, but also, very importantly, identifying their access to essential services such as healthcare in parts of China that are affected by this coronavirus.China has an excellent healthcare system, but, in parts of the country, it is simply overwhelmed and the accessibility to that healthcare for any reason  including potential infection, but also any other type of accident in need of medical care  may be compromised during the Chinese governments own treatment of the consequences of this virus.Finally, we also make our judgments based upon any obstacles, particularly obstacles to movement that American citizens might face in the country. And in China, we have seen barriers to travel, both within and without China, as well as between the United States and China. And so weve given prudent advice, over the course of the week, to American citizens in order for them  to allow them to make the best possible choices for themselves.Our second responsibility is to assist U.S. citizens in the affected areas as much as possible. Because we have a presence on the ground, we can provide advice and, in some cases, we can make other arrangements. But I want to emphasize this is as possible, and we will continue to review what we can do in certain circumstances.Finally, and very importantly, the core mission of the Department of State is to work closely with our international partners. And in this case, we are working very closely with the Chinese government in order to address a number of related matters.But let me start, on behalf of the President and the Secretary of State, by extending our deepest compassion to the people of China. This has been a very difficult time for the Chinese people. It came at a point of their peak holiday season. Many are affected. Many have lost loved ones or are enduring the illness of loved ones. And I want the Chinese people to know that they have the deepest sympathies of the United States of America.Let me also say and echo what Secretary Azar said, which is we are deeply appreciative of the close cooperation we have with the Chinese government as we work together to try to find appropriate ways to address any risks and challenges from this virus.And finally, the United States will continue to cooperate with China in ways that we could potentially provide assistance, including technical assistance, and also, to the extent possible, any critical supplies that the Chinese need in order to address this virus. And we are working very hard to find donors and make arrangements so that we can  we can undertake a robust effort to help the Chinese people get their arms around this outbreak.Thank you.SECRETARY AZAR Thank you, Secretary Biegun. Let me  let me next invite the Acting Deputy Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security Ken Cuccinelli to take the podium for some comments.ACTING DEPUTY SECRETARY CUCCINELLI Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I am Ken Cuccinelli. Im the Acting Deputy Secretary at the Department of Homeland Security, and Im the Departments representative on the task force led by Secretary Azar.Several elements of the Department of Homeland Security are engaged in implementing the medical strategy you heard described here, including Customs and Border Protection, which stands at our land ports, seaports, and airports  and Ill come back to the airports in a moment  particularly the Office of Field Operations personnel who you see when you come back into the country from your travels. Theyre the first line of defense when you land and come to the country.Additionally engaged is TSA  the security and the engagement with the airlines. Our chief medical officer in the department is in CWMD and theyre  we were providing medical support at the airports.So were using contract authority that we have to backfill the CDC personnel, so they can be freed up for other missions at the airports where medical screening is being focused.FEMA continues to prepare and support HHS preparations themselves. And then the United States Coast Guard, of course, commands the ports of the United States and deals with incoming shipping, which is obviously slower than the airplanes but coming nonetheless, and we are prepared to deal with each of those.The Presidents proclamation will have Customs and Border Protection ensuring that United States citizens, legal permanent residents, and their immediate families continue to enter the United States, though they  those coming from Hubei Province, as you heard from the Secretary, will be subject to quarantine and the others from China to screening.We will be implementing a funneling effort at the airports. This is done under the authority of the Customs and Border Protection, and it will include seven airports. So starting five oclock on Sunday, Eastern Time, incoming flights from China will be funneled through seven airports. Those airports are JFK, Chicagos OHare, in San Francisco, Seattle, Atlanta, Honolulu, and LAX.This is done under CBPs authority. It will be executed by the Secretary the Department of Homeland Security, consistent with the Presidents proclamation and in support of that effort  again, so we can focus the expertise of the medical professionals that will do the screening to implement this.Well continue to support the medical efforts across the country both at our ports  our land, sea, and air  as well as with personnel standing up some of the resiliency measures that HHS has been working on for some time. Thank you.SECRETARY AZAR Thank you, Secretary Cuccinelli. At this point, wed be happy to take some of your questions. Kevin, would you like to get started?