James S. Brady Press Briefing Room545 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Id like to begin by saying weve just closed out another month of stock market. We had the best stock market  Dow  in 36 years. Thats very impressive. So people are very happy with their 401ks and with the stocks that they have. And thats a tremendous achievement best in 36 years.Let me begin with a brief update on the China virus. Over the last month, our new cases in the United States have declined by 38 percent. Last week, we announced a breakthrough in testing that will allow us to have over 150 million rapid, pointofcare tests. These tests return results in less than 15 minutes, and many will be deployed to nursing homes. Were being focusing  were focusing very strongly on nursing homes, assisted living facilities, and other locations that serve highrisk populations. So were going to have the 15minute, and less, tests, and we will have 150 million rapid pointofcare tests. Thats something.This evening, I am pleased to announce that AstraZeneca vaccine has reached phase three clinical trials. So thats joining another group of vaccines that are very close to the end and, hopefully, approval. In the United States, were doing things that nobody thought would have been even possible. This is a process that would have taken, in some cases, years, and we did it in a matter of months.Thanks to the efforts of Operation Warp Speed, we remain on track to deliver a vaccine very rapidly, in record time.I also want to provide an update on leftwing political violence that were seeing in Democratrun cities. Under my administration, federal law enforcement is working with state and local authorities all over the country to comb through hours of video, track down rioters, looters, and arsonists, and bring them to justice. Weve just come up with a report that weve arrested a large number of people. Its over 200. And youll be hearing about that, but theyve been arrested in various cities throughout the United States. Were doing it very low key, but were trying to help cities. They are, in all cases, Democratrun, but were doing the best we can to help them without really much of a consent.Wed like to have the consent, as an example, in Portland. We could solve that problem in approximately one hour, but the mayor refuses, perhaps for political reasons. I dont know why its good for him to have a city thats falling apart and thats under siege now for 94 days. But, really, its been under siege for years, if you know Portland.So, to the mayor, I say Whenever youre ready, let us know. Well solve your problem of violence. Well solve your problem of crime. Well arrest those criminals very rapidly, and youll be able to have some nice evenings in Portland.The Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Justice are announcing a joint operation center to investigate the violent, leftwing civil unrest. And again, in Portland alone, the federal government has already taken care of and arrested 100 rioters, just in that one city. The wave of violence and destruction that weve seen in recent weeks and months has occurred in cities exclusively controlled and dominated by the Biden  Joe Biden party. If you take a look, the top 10 in the country are Democrats its Democratrun cities, and its a shame, and it can be solved so easy. It can be solved very easily.The violence is fueled by dangerous rhetoric from farleft politicians that demonize our nation and demonize our police. We have to allow our police to do what theyre very good at doing. Weve taken that power away. Theyre afraid to lose their pension, their job, their everything. Theyre afraid to be destroyed.You saw this when leftwing extremists attacked lawabiding citizens attending the Republic  the Republican National Convention at the White House, including Senator Rand Paul and his wonderful wife Kelly. What they went through, but other people went through it too. And that was done very systematically. That was done on purpose. They knew we were having the convention, and they wanted to do everything they could to disrupt it. And the good news is the public is very wise to it. They see whats happening, and theyre wise to it, and I think they are probably acting accordingly.Leftwing rioters are repeating the same false narrative about America that you hear about, the  really, you hear this from people  what theyre saying, how theyre saying it  the violence, its terrible. And again, its Democrat politicians. I dont know that theyre spurring it on or theyre afraid to stop it. But in any event, were there to help. Were there to get things under control.What they did on Thursday night at the White House, just outside of the White House, to people that came from all over the world is a disgrace. Its a disgrace. And, frankly, the mayor  Democrat mayor, Mayor Bowser  should have done a better job. She did a very poor job. But at the same time, we had the police, who were very brave. They helped Rand. I guess, it started off with two, and they took a beating, if you can believe this. They really took some heavy hits. One went down but got right up, and two others joined them, and they were able to get Rand and Kelly through.But it was a terrible, terrible thing to witness. But other people went through similar  not to the extent, in terms of taping. We dont have to the tapes as strong, but some people went through  from what I heard  as bad, or worse.The violent rioters share Bidens same talking points, and they share his same agenda for our nation. And even his strange speech today that he made in Pittsburgh, he didnt mention the fact, and he didnt mention the far left. He didnt mention the far left, or, from what I saw, I dont believe he mentioned the word Antifa. Antifa is a criminal organization, and he didnt mention Antifa thugs, but mostly seemed to blame the police and law enforcement.He went on point after point after point. He even talked about those on the right, but he didnt talk about those on the left. And those on the left are the problem, and Antifa is the problem. The rioters and Joe Biden have a side Theyre both on the side of the radical left, and that is so obvious.And until that neutralizes, youre never going to have safe areas in those Democratrun areas. For months, Joe Biden has given moral aid and comfort to the vandals repeating the monstrous lie that these were peaceful protests. Theyre not peaceful protests. Thats anarchy. Thats  you look at the agitators, you look at the looters, you look at the rioters  thats not a peaceful protest.They keep using the term  its so nice  peaceful protest. And behind the reporter, the cities are burning. We could solve it very quickly if they ask us to come in, like we did in Minneapolis and like we just did in Wisconsin, where Ill be going tomorrow. And at least the governor asked me if I could, we would  I said, You got to get the National Guard. And he finally agreed to even a small number, but they were able to take care of things, and that was about five days ago, six days ago. And ever since, its been very good.Thirteen members of Bidens campaign staff donated to bail and  rioters  theyre getting them out of jail. Looters  they got them out of jail. And his running mate, Kamala, urged their supporters to do the same thing. Its outrageous that theyre now seeking to shift the blame for the mayhem.And they really want to put it on the  on the backs of the police. I see it. The police are  theres just a war on law enforcement in this country. And without law enforcement, we wouldnt have a country. We have very talented people theyre not allowed to do their job.If you give the radicalleft power, what youre seeing in the Democratrun cities will be brought to every city in this country. If they have that power, every city in this country could be potentially another Portland or another Chicago, where theyve had such problems.To defeat them, we must jail lawbreakers, and we must defeat their hateful ideology about this country, about America. We must teach our children that America is an exceptional, free, and just nation worth defending, preserving, and protecting. And thats what we want to do.They want to destroy our country. Theyre going to destroy our suburbs. But I think Ive gone a long way from allowing that to happen. The suburbs are protected, especially with the rule changes that I made. I took them out of the Obama administration they were going to be made much worse.What were witnessing today is a result of leftwing indoctrination in our nations schools and universities. Many young Americans have been fed lies about America being a wicked nation plagued by racism.Indeed, Joe Biden and his party spent their entire convention spreading this hateful and destructive message while refusing to say one word about the violence. They didnt even discuss law enforcement, the police. Those words werent mentioned.Two words that were taken out were the words under God  under God  two very important words in the Pledge of Allegiance. In their caucus, I guess they did it twice. They took it out of their Pledge of Allegiance. I heard it the one time, and I said Thats strange. Whats  thats a big I tell you, I figured they maybe made a mistake, something happened. No, they didnt make a mistake. Then they did it later on.So they took the word  essentially, took the word God out of the Pledge of Allegiance. Were not taking the word God out of anything. Were not taking it out of our Pledge of Allegiance, and were not taking the great word God out of anything.At our convention, we highlighted law enforcement heroes and repeatedly emphasized that violence has no place in American political discourse. The lefts war on police, faith, history, and American values is tearing our country apart, which is what they want. They think its good, but its gotten out of control. Theyre unable to control this radicalleft, crazy movement, but we can control it very quickly  very, very, quickly indeed.The only path to unity is to rebuild a shared national identity focused on common American values and virtues, of which we have plenty. This includes restoring patriotic education in our nations schools, where theyre trying to change everything that weve learned. What weve learned  in fact, what most of you have learned, they want to change it. They want to change it for whatever reason  cancel culture  whatever you want to call it.At the same time, we must strictly and fully enforce our law and have no tolerance for anarchy and no tolerance  zero  for violence. Anyone who breaks the law should be arrested, prosecuted, and punished. This includes targeting law enforcement efforts to focus on Antifa, the leftwing domestic terror organization. The mission of Antifa is to spread terror in the U.S. population with a goal of getting Americans to give up to their agenda. This is how terrorist organizations have always operated.Biden wont even say the name Antifa. I dont believe he said it today. He made a speech, and he didnt mention that. He mentioned others, but he didnt mention Antifa. He mentioned law enforcement, he mentioned the police, and  but he didnt mention Antifa. I wonder why. And if he cannot name the problem, theres no way that hell solve the problem. You dont name it, you dont solve it.In fact, Biden would give Antifa exactly what it wants the farleft policy agenda its asking for. And if that happened, we dont have much of a country left. If you give violent extremists what they want, the violence doesnt go away they gain new power to spread the terror nationwide.Most of our nation is extremely safe, by the way. You know, you only see the bad. You see Portland and Chicago, and you see whats happened in New York just in a very short period of time. Its horrible whats happened in New York. I love New York I come from New York. And when I see  four years ago, I left, and I could see that it was problems under this mayor. Hes terrible mayor one of the worst. I cant say the worst. I mean, I  Ive witnessed Portland. Hard to top him, but hes certainly one of the worst. And when I look at whats happening in New York, and I look at whats happening in the city, and  so quickly. It happened so quickly. Its a shame.Bidens strategy is to surrender to the leftwing mob, which is exactly what hes doing  I dont think he even knows what hes doing  and give them control over every lever of power in the United States government. But when you surrender to the mob, you dont get freedom you get fascism. Thats what happens in all cases. You take a look at Venezuela. Look what  look whats going on there and other places.Biden is using  Biden is using mafia talking points The mob will leave you alone if you give them what you want. Thats what it is. The mob will leave you alone. Give them what you want. But it doesnt work that way, because once you give them, they keep taking, taking, taking.What happens is you give and give and give, and you take, and they no longer respect you. And thats whats happened with the Democrats, because I actually think theyve lost control of these radicalleft maniacs. I think theyve lost control, because I dont think they feel thats helping them  when New York and Chicago and Portland, and you look at Oakland, and you look at Baltimore, and you look at so many different places and whats going on there. The top 10 are all run by Democrats, and you can go a lot further down the list than 10.In America, we will never surrender to mob rule because if the mob rules, democracy is indeed dead. The reason were continuing to see violence in leftwing cities today is that liberal politicians, mayors, prosecutors, and judges are refusing to enforce the law and put the rioters in jail. These are rioters. These are dangerous people. These are killers. They kill a lot of people, and they dont even think about it. They wake up the next morning they dont even think about it.This is the extreme lefts agenda for America They want to appoint radical prosecutors, judges, and federal officials who will set criminals free. Their stated plan is to cut police funding, abolish cash bail, close down prisons, reeducate our children, preach leftwing social justice, establish a national sanctuary for criminal illegal aliens, and abolish the death penalty, even for cop killers.No one will be safe. And, in fact, they want very much to let people in prison  like, as an example, the Boston bomber  they want to let everybody vote. If youre in prison, if youre the Boston bomber, they want you to have a vote. I dont know, I dont think that sells too well.My administration is a very different approach. We want states to work with us to deploy the National Guard to quell the unrest. All they have to do is call us. We will have the National Guard. Were prepared. Were ready to go no matter where they may call from. Any part of the country  East Coast, West Coast, doesnt matter  were ready to move immediately, as we did in Minneapolis, as we did  we are ready to move as quickly as you can imagine.Tomorrow, Im going to a place where we moved very quickly  you know that  in Wisconsin. And we moved very, very quickly. And as soon as we moved, that was the end of that. It was very well behaved.Ill appoint more toughoncrime prosecutors, support stiffer penalties and longer jail terms for rioters, and support effective policing methods that are proven to be great crime reducers. When you enforce the law, order follows. And we need order. We need  we need order. You cant have cities run like these cities are run.They gave a little, then they gave a little, then they gave a little more. And all of a sudden, theyve lost these cities, but Ill get them back very quickly. All they have to do is say, Please come in. As you know, they have to ask  unless we go a much tougher route, which we could, but you dont like to do that  they have to ask you to come in. When they ask me to come in, well be there within a matter of minutes.When I signed the executive order outlining 10year prison sentences, as an example, for destroying monuments and statues, it immediately stopped. That was three months ago or so. I signed an order, and it said, Ten years in prison. Ten years if you knock down a statue. It immediately stopped. I mean, to the best of my knowledge, I havent seen it happening for about that time. They were going to have a big march on Washington. They cancelled that march. They said 10 years is too long.Before the outbreak of leftwing extremism, our strategy produced a historic reduction in violent crime. In the last two years of the Obama administration, murder increased 30 percent in major American cities, and we witnessed the largest twoyear nationwide increase in murder in over a half a century.In the first two years of my presidency, the number of murders went down significantly. Earlier this year, we announced that Operation LeGend, surging federal law enforcement to cities plagued by violent crime. And we did a lot of it. We did a lot of it very quietly, but we did a lot.Since the beginning of Operation LeGend, we have conducted more than 1,000 arrests and reduced the murder rate in Kansas City, which is one of the cities we targeted, by one third got it down 33 percent. In the last month alone, we cut the murder rate in Chicago in half. People dont know that, but we sent them into Chicago without fanfare at all. But we cut it down in half its still far too high. And if theyd ask for full help, as opposed to just sending in some very talented people, wed be able to cut it down to a very low number.While I am President, we will defend the rights of lawabiding citizens. We will honor the heroes who keep America safe. And we do  we honor our police we honor our law enforcement.I have the privilege of having gotten, I guess, most  most every law enforcement group in the country that I can think of  the sheriffs in Florida  all of them law enforcement in Ohio in Texas North Carolina. I mean, almost no matter where you look, I think Ive gotten all of it. Well have to do a little study so Im totally accurate, but I would say all of it. And the ones who didnt, I think we have to look at them  where do they come from.So we  weve done a real job. Were ready, willing, and able to help these Democratrun cities that are doing poorly. They have to call and ask. All they have to do is call. They dont even have to put it in writing. Well put it in writing later. Well get them in there, and well straighten out the city very quickly  whichever city we may be talking about.So those governors that are responsible for a state that has a city thats got a lot of problems Call me or the mayor can call me, and well be there very quickly.Tomorrow, were making that trip to Wisconsin. I think a lot of you are going to be going, and it should be very interesting. It should be very interesting. But were proud of it because, in six days, its been like a different world. And it took place immediately. As soon as we surged, as soon as we went in, it took place immediately.Okay, please. Thank you.