James S. Brady Press Briefing Room532 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. And its good to see you all. Hope you had a great weekend at your convention. And were going to have a great convention coming up, and I look forward to it.But before I discuss a very historic breakthrough in our fight against the China virus, Id like to provide an update on the recent wildfires in California and the storms in the Gulf of Mexico.Yesterday, I approved a major disaster declaration for California. I spoke to Governor Newsom as they battle two of the worst wildfires in the history of their state. That continues. The federal government has already deployed over 26,000 first responders and personnel to battle the wildfires. Were working very closely with the governor and very closely with a lot of great state representatives and local representatives, and well take care of the situation. But we have 26,000 first responders already.Our hearts go out to the thousands of families who have lost their homes. As we grieve for the families of two first responders and five residents who have tragically lost their lives in a very horrific fire  one of the biggest weve ever seen  my administration is also closely monitoring Hurricane Marco and Tropical Storm Laura, which are coming in rapidly. Hurricane Marco is expected to make landfall in Louisiana tomorrow, and Tropical Storm Laura is expected to hit Louisiana two days later. This is somewhat unprecedented  the scope of the storms and also the fact that they come so quickly after one another.Both storms have the potential of gathering strength before they make landfall and could cause significant damage across the Gulf Coast and also in Puerto Rico. We have everybody stationed and ready to go in Puerto Rico and the Gulf Coast, and we have tremendous  tremendous people.We have  FEMA is lined up. We have the Coast Guard ready. The Coast Guard has  has done a fantastic job. They do so many  they do such good work, and we want to thank our great Coast Guard.Im asking all Americans in the storms path to follow the instructions of your state and local governments very closely. And Ive approved emergency declarations for Puerto Rico and for Louisiana. FEMA is mobilized on the ground and is ready to help. They will be in there very quickly  very, very quickly.And I spoke to Governor John Bel Edwards also, of Louisiana, and Ive informed him. And at his request, also, a major disaster declaration is signed and ready to go. We have everybody ready in Puerto Rico, the Gulf Coast, Louisiana, and also on the forest fires in California. So we have a great team. Unfortunately, we have some very, very powerful natural disasters.On the therapeutics front, this is what Ive been looking to do for a long time. This is a great thing. Today, Im pleased to make a truly historic announcement in our battle against the China virus that will save countless lives. The FDA has issued an emergency use authorization  and thats such a powerful term emergency use authorization  for a treatment known as convalescent plasma. This is a powerful therapy that transfuses very, very strong antibodies from the blood of recovered patients to help treat patients battling a current infection. Its had an incredible rate of success.Todays action will dramatically expand access to this treatment. And I want to thank Dr. Hahn and Secretary Azar. I want to thank the FDA  all of the people that have been working very hard on this. It showed tremendous potential.This is the only possible  and its only made possible because of Operation Warp Speed that has everybody working together. Were years ahead of approvals. We would be  if we went by the speed levels of past administration, wed be two years, three years behind where we are today, and that includes in vaccines that youll be hearing about very soon, very shortly.To deliver treatments and vaccine to save lives, were removing unnecessary barriers and delays not by cutting corners, but by marshaling the full power of the federal government.Weve provided 48 million to fund the Mayo Clinic study that tested the efficacy of convalescent plasma for patients with the virus. Through this study, over 100,000 Americans have already enrolled to receive this treatment, and it has proven to reduce mortality by 35 percent. Its a tremendous number.The FDA, MIT, Harvard, and Mount Sinai hospital have also found convalescent plasma to be a very effective method of fighting this horrible disease.Based on the science and the data, the FDA has made the independent determination that the treatment is safe and very effective. Recently, we provided up to 270 million to the American Red Cross and Americas Blood Centers to support the collection of up to 360,000 units of plasma.In late July, we launched a nationwide campaign to ask patients to have  who have recovered  and these are patients that have been incredible, the way theyve donated  but these are people recovering from the virus  to donate plasma. Since then, weekly plasma donations have doubled.And today, I once again urge all Americans who have recovered from the virus to go to Coronavirus.gov and sign up and donate plasma today please. Its been really an incredible  just incredible people. The country has united so strongly behind this.And Ill go over the numbers, but if you look at whats happened and the success that weve had that people dont talk about  the United States has experienced the lowest casefatality rate of any major country in the world. You dont hear that.The European Unions casefatality rate is estimated to be three times higher than that in the United States. Europe has seen 33 percent more fatalities, compared to a typical nonpandemic year than the United States.And I just want to ask two of our people that have done such a fantastic job, Alex Azar and Stephen Hahn, to say a few words. And, Stephen, I want to thank you because the FDA really stepped up  and especially over the last few days  in getting this done. The results have been incredible, and I think youll see the results even go up very substantially. So we appreciate it.And maybe Ill ask Alex to go first, and then Stephen. Thank you very much, Alex.SECRETARY AZAR Well, thank you very much, Mr. President. Thanks for the bold leadership that allowed us to deliver this very happy news today.Thanks to your allofAmerica approach, America has done more than any other country to expand the arsenal that we have to battle COVID19. And thanks to early efforts by your administration, Americans have broader access to these treatments, including convalescent plasma, than patients anywhere else in the world.In early April, early in our fight against COVID19, the FDA, BARDA, the Mayo Clinic, and other partners sprang into action to set up an expanded access protocol for this promising treatment.President Trump is the Right to Try President, and hes fought hard to ensure that Americans can have access to promising COVID19 treatments. Convalescent plasma has been a triedandtrue therapeutic method in prior outbreaks, but the President wanted to ensure that we develop the data to support its use, and this FDA authorization is one result of that effort.The data we gathered suggests that patients who were treated early in their disease course  within three days of being diagnosed  with plasma containing high levels of antibodies benefited the most from treatment. We saw about a 35 percent better survival in the patients who benefited most from the treatment  which were patients under 80 who were not on artificial respiration.I just want to emphasize this point because I dont want you to gloss over this  this number. We dream, in drug development, of something like a 35 percent mortality reduction. This is a major advance in the treatment of patients. This is a major advance.Convalescent plasma is one new tool that weve added to our arsenal against COVID19, alongside remdesivir, steroids, and a number of other promising options currently being studied. Because of the Presidents Operation Warp Speed, we expect to have other new results and new options reaching patients as soon as this fall.Operation Warp Speed is supporting experimental therapeutics all the way through to manufacturing so that if they meet FDAs gold standard for safety and efficacy, they can begin reaching patients without a day wasted.Americans who have tested positive for and recovered from COVID19 can go to Coronavirus.gov to find out a quick, convenient way to play a potentially lifesaving role in our fight. Know If you donate plasma, you could save a life.Weve also provided guidance so healthcare providers can contact patients who have recovered from COVID19 and give them information on how they can donate.So, thank you again, Mr. President, for supporting this remarkable progress against COVID19. And I want to thank Dr. Hahn, Dr. Marks, and the entire team at the FDA for the speed with which theyve approached this, the diligence to ensure that this meets the standards at FDA.And Ill turn it over to Dr. Hahn if thats okay, Mr. President.THE PRESIDENT Good. Thank you very much.Please, Doctor.DR. HAHN Thank you, Mr. President, for your leadership. Its good to be here today to announce FDAs recent decision. From the beginning of this pandemic, the President has asked FDA to cut back red tape to try to speed medical products into the hands of providers, patients, and American consumers. And I just want to echo the Presidents thanks to the more than 17,000 men and women who work at FDA. They have worked day and night to, in fact, do that.So, plasma is the liquid portion of the blood. That liquid portion contains the natural immunity that someone develops in response to an infection  in this case, COVID19  and that liquid portion can be extracted. And for many years, as the President and Secretary Azar said, its been given to patients with infectious diseases  for more than 100 years. So there was a really good rationale for why this might work.And, in fact, as was mentioned, in early April, an expandedaccess program was started at the Mayo Clinic with the support of the federal government, under President Trumps leadership, and that has gone on for the last four months. More than 90,000, close to 100,000 Americans have enrolled in this program and over 70,000 have received treatment. This is one of the largest expandedaccess programs in the history of FDA. So, a very successful approach to evaluating how convalescent plasma would work.So, in the independent judgment of experts and expert scientists at FDA who have reviewed the totality of data  not just the data from this expandedaccess program, but more than a dozen published studies, as well as the historical experience associated with this. Those  those scientists have concluded that COVID19 convalescent plasma is safe and shows promising efficacy, thereby meeting the criteria for an emergency use authorization.In the optimal treatment  the optimal patients, as described by Secretary Azar, treated with convalescent plasma at the highest titers, there was a 35 percent improvement in survival, which is a significant clinical benefit.Now, were waiting for more data. Were going to continue to gather data. But this clearly meets the criteria that weve established for emergency use authorization, and were very pleased with these results.So, let me just put this in perspective. Many of you know I was a cancer doctor before I became FDA commissioner, and a 35 percent improvement in survival is a pretty substantial clinical benefit. What that means is  and if the data continue to pan out  100 people who are sick with COVID19, 35 would have been saved because of the administration of plasma.Weve seen a great deal of demand for this from doctors around the country. And what this EUA does  EUA  emergency use authorization today does It allows us to continue that and meet the demand.And again, I want to echo the Presidents and the Secretarys ask of the American people If youve recovered from COVID19, please donate. It could save a life.And, Mr. President, thank you again.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much, Stephen. I appreciate it.Okay, any questions, please? Please, go ahead.