Trump National Golf ClubBedminster, New JerseyAugust 15, 2020526 P.M. EDT     THE PRESIDENT  Thank you.  Thank you very much.  Appreciate it.  And thank you for being here.  Let me provide a brief update on the China virus, as well as our economic recovery, which is going really very well, as you probably have been hearing.     Nearly 85 percent of jurisdictions all across our country are reporting a very steep decline in cases, and thats despite the fact that we have the number one testing program anywhere in the world.  Were up to almost 70 million tests, far beyond any other country.  This week, cases nationwide have declined by 6 percent the test positivity rate has fallen to just 6.5 percent, a 71 percent reduction from April and a 15 percent reduction from midJuly.  Thats a big reduction.  The hospitalization rate for the virus has been reduced by half since April.     And I urge everyone to apply commonsense mitigation.  We know that.  And we are all doing that, and I want to thank the American people for really doing such a great job.      The United States has now administered over 70 million tests, more than all of the European Union combined.  If you combine all of Europe, its less than what we do.  Millions of pointofcare tests are processed in less than 24 hours and many in under 15 minutes.  Nearly 80 percent of all commercial lab test results are now returned within three days.  So weve gotten that number down from about eight days to three days, and thats only in the longerterm lab cases.  But we have many 15 minute tests we have some 5minute tests.  The turnaround time for federal surge testing sites is just two days.  So when you send them out, despite the fact that you have a delivery time, which you cant do anything about, its all the way down to two days.  Thats a very substantial reduction.  Great job by the people that do it.     We are focused on aggressively shielding the highestrisk individuals.  Those living in nursing homes and longterm care facilities are less than 1 percent of the U.S. population but account for nearly half of all fatalities.  Thats an incredible thing.  So its 1 percent of the U.S. population but they account for nearly half of the fatalities from the China virus.  Thats why we have rushed nursing home funding, protective gear, and rapid testing equipment.  And we will announce additional measures to protect nursing home residents.     In the coming days, weve worked very hard with nursing home companies and also with the governors  50 governors all around the United States  and we have developed a very good relationship with most of the governors.  And I think, for the most part, theyre doing a really good job.  Theyre focused very heavily on nursing homes.  And when they need equipment that they cant get  remember, theyre supposed to get it, but when they cant get, we have tremendous amounts of equipment in stock.     Thanks to my administrations decisive action to save American jobs, were currently witnessing the fastest economic recovery in American history.  And thats because the foundation that we set previously, before the virus came and hit our shore  the foundation was so strong we had such a strong foundation that were recovering much faster than anybody anticipated.  It turns out that it will be a very, very strong V, and youll see that in just a second.     So retail spending has fully recovered and is now at an alltime high.  Thats not all time for this month or last month thats at an alltime high, and you see that with the chart.  This was previous to the  the plague, I call it  the plague coming into our land, and really affected 188  dealing with 188 countries.      And if you see, weve not only recovered but were at a much higher level than we were even then.  Thats an incredible number that nobody thought would even be possible.  So were currently witnessing the fastest economic recovery in American history.  Thats an amazing statement.      So retail spending is great, and now, if they would put up, auto production has surged 28 percent, and thats your auto production, which is right there.  A chart is displayed.  So youll see that thats now about even to where it was, and that was at an alltime record high, and were already even.      And if you had a chart for used cars, youd see that used car sales are setting a record, and thats great for production because when the used cars are practically not available  theyre very, very tight  that means youre going to make a lot of new cars.  So that number is going to go up even beyond what it is right now, but thats a fantastic number.  Thats a number thats the equivalent of where it was, and that was a record.     So you see whats happening with respect to the economy and the recovery.  And the stock market is almost at an alltime high.  In fact, NASDA