James S. Brady Press Briefing Room527 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Hello, everyone. Thank you very much. It was just announced by Attorney General Barr that theyve caught the killer of LeGend Taliferro  horribly shot  a young man, wonderful young man. And we have just  this just came out two minutes ago. So, Attorney General Barr just announced.As you know, we named Operation LeGend after LeGend Taliferro, where were going to be helping out, and are in the process of helping out, cities throughout our country that have difficulty with crime  in particular, certain types of crime. So thats really good news. They caught the killer of LeGend.Today, we saw Joe Biden continue to politicize a pandemic and to show his appalling lack of respect for the American people. Thats what it is. At every turn, Biden has been wrong about the virus, ignoring the scientific evidence and putting leftwing politics before facts and evidence.Sleepy Joe opposed both the China and the Europe travel bans. You know that. He opposed the China travel ban that I instituted very early and the Europe travel ban that I instituted quite early.If he had followed  if we went after  I listened to his advice, hundreds of thousands more people would have died. This is according to many people. I believe that Dr. Fauci agreed with that. He said that President Trump made a great decision when he put the ban on China.Joe Biden wants to fling open American borders, allowing the pandemic to infiltrate every U.S. community based on his policies. He wants to have ridiculous open borders. Ive been saying from the first day I started campaigning for this great office that if you have open borders, you dont have a country. You dont have a country, with open borders. So he wants open borders. The Democrats want open borders.And if you take a look at our southern border, we would have criminals pouring through. The wall is getting close to 290 miles long, and its having a huge impact. So we disagree with him on that. Thats one of the many different  many things that we disagree with.But while Joe Biden would allow rioters and looters and criminals and millions of illegal aliens to roam free in our country, he wants the federal government to issue a sweeping new mandate to lawabiding citizens.He wants the President of the United States, with the mere stroke of a pen, to order over 300 million American citizens to wear a mask for a minimum of three straight months  I guess this just happened he thinks its good politics, I guess  no matter where they live and no matter their surroundings. Because different states are much different, both in terms of the atmosphere itself and also in terms of the corona problem.He does not identify what authority the President has to issue such a mandate or how federal law enforcement could possibly enforce it or why we would be stepping on governors throughout our country, many of whom have done a very good job and they know what is needed.Also, many of our 50 states are doing the job at a level that frankly, people are really surprised, including foreign governments that are calling us constantly and asking for advice. So I want to just say our governors have worked very hard. Theyve worked with Vice President Pence and myself and everybody else thats been going.We have Scott now involved. And so, Scott, congratulations. Youll be working with a lot of governors youve already started. And Dr. Fauci and Dr. Birx.If the President has the unilateral power to order every single citizen to cover their face in nearly all instances, what other powers does he have? Thats why he refused  Biden  to take questions. He couldnt answer any of them. Couldnt answer the questions. He refuses to take questions. He never takes questions. I take questions he never takes questions. And you sort of wonder whats going on, because theyre not that difficult. Some can be nasty, but theyre not that difficult. But he never takes questions. So he just, I guess, left. I didnt see it, but I guess he just left the podium. Put it in your minds.My administration has a different approach We have urged Americans to wear masks. And I emphasized this is a patriotic thing to do. Maybe theyre great and maybe theyre just good. Maybe theyre not so good. But frankly, what do you have to lose? You have nothing to lose. So we do, and weve been saying wear them when its appropriate, especially in terms of social distancing, if you cant distance enough. And what do you have to lose?But again, its up to the governors. And we want to have a certain freedom. We want to have a certain freedom. Thats what were about.At the same time, we also understand that each state is different and is facing unique circumstances. You have very, very different states facing very unique differences and circumstances.Weve entrusted the governors of each state, elected by the people, to develop and enforce their own mask policies and other policies, following guidance from the federal government and CDC. Were working with each state to implement a plan based on the facts and science. We will continue to urge Americans to wear masks when they cannot socially distance, but we do not need to bring the full weight of the federal government down on lawabiding Americans to accomplish this goal.Americans must have their freedoms. And I trust the American people and their governors very much. I trust the American people. And the governors want to do the right thing to make the smart decisions, and Joe doesnt. Joe doesnt. Joe doesnt know too much.Unlike the Biden approach, our approach is guided by science. Thats why were focused on protecting the highrisk Americans. That is why were delivering effective medical treatments to dramatically reduce the fatality rate. And that is why were developing a vaccine and therapeutics in record time. Youll see that, I think, very soon.Sleepy Joe rejects the scientific approach in favor of locking all Americans in their basements for months on end, which I think is something that Scott would be very opposed to. I think I can speak for you. Weve been dealing pretty strongly over the last number of weeks. But he wants them in the basement for months on end.And you have governors that have been very, very strict on keeping people in their houses, keeping people in their  wherever they may be  apartments. And frankly, I dont think the results are necessarily better than other results. But he wants to shut down our economy, close our schools, and grind society to a halt. And he wants it done by a federal decree. This would lead to a crippling long  longlasting depression. This would be a crippling longlasting depression.And yesterday, I showed you the numbers about how well were doing coming back with auto sales and auto manufacturing and used car sales and housing sales at numbers that nobody would have believed. And were back and very strong. Its a very strong V. Its almost a straightup V. Well be discussing that over the next couple of days.But the economy is coming back, and the employment numbers over the last three months are a record in history of our country. And well be back next year. I think well be maybe even stronger than the previous years, where we set every record in the book unemployment and stock market.By the way, our stock market numbers are very close to record. And NASDA