James S. Brady Press Briefing Room130 P.M. EDT     MS. MCENANY  Hello, everyone.  This is a historic day, and I have here with me Senior Advisor Jared Kushner, Ambassador Robert OBrien.  Theyre going to summarize the history that was made today and take a few of your questions.  We also have Special Representative Avi Berkowitz here and Special Envoy to Iran, Brian Hook, who will be in attendance.      MR. KUSHNER  Thank you, Kayleigh.  And thank you all for being here.      I want to start today by congratulating the people of Israel and the people of the United Arab Emirates.  Today is a historic breakthrough and a great day for peace.      I also want to congratulate President Trump on this milestone.  He worked very hard on this with his team.  We worked with Prime Minister Netanyahu and the Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed, who really are two visionary leaders who made a big step forward today to really change the region.      The last time we had an agreement like this in the region was 1994, when Israel made an agreement with the Kingdom of Jordan, which stopped aggression and helped bring forward peace.      Over the last 26 years, theres been a lot of developments in the region  some positive, but many that have set the region back, and it has led to lots of lives being lost, lots of opportunity and hope being destroyed, and  and a region that really has had a lot of problems.     When President Trump came into office, we had a caliphate for ISIS in the Middle East, which was the size of Ohio.  We had a lot of instability.  Irans aggression was being felt all throughout the region.  A lot of their proxies were very well funded and causing instability in Yemen and in Syria and in other places.      And now were in a position where weve been able to work with our allies.  A lot of our allies felt abandoned.  President Trump has been able to rebuild those relationships.  His first trip as President was to Saudi Arabia in May of 2017, where he laid out the problems that were facing the region and very clearly articulated that, in order to make progress, wed all have to work together around common goals and wed have to acknowledge historic differences and historic conflicts.  But we cant let those conflicts hold us back.      President Trumps leadership, the ability to build the relationships with the leaders in the region  people were modernizing their society and realizing that we needed a new paradigm.     On President Trumps visit to Saudi Arabia, we made an agreement with a lot of these countries that were going to start a counterterror finance center.  And since then, weve worked to limit the amount of funding thats gone to extremist groups.      We worked with Saudi Arabia, which is the custodian of the two holy sites, and we worked with them to do a counter center, a counterextremism center to combat online extremism, and thats made a big difference because you cant solve the shortterm problem without taking on the longterm fight.  Weve seen Saudi Arabia make a lot of modernizations over the last years, giving more rights to women and taking steps in the right direction, which have been very positive.  And now todays breakthrough really allows us to go forward.      To give you a little bit of background on this deal, this is something thats been in discussions now for over a year and a half.  We were talking with Israel we were talking with United Arab Emirates about moving forward.  Obviously, because of the Israeli elections and because of some other things that were happening in the region, this is something that was talked about but never really got to the right place for it to happen.     As you know, with deals, deals happen when deals are ready.  And peace deals are very rare and very historic, and theres a lot of reasons why people would be held back from moving forward.      What we saw was when the President rolled out his vision for peace, which we worked very hard on for a couple of years to really try to understand the issues in the region between the Israelis and Palestinians, he put forward 180 pages of detail on how we can address the issues of the past but also figure out how to move forward.      During that acknowledgement, President Trump was able to get Israel to agree to have a twostate solution with the Palestinians and, for the first time in history, to agree to a map that outlined the territory that they would be willing to work with in order to see that happen.  That showed a lot of people in the region that Israel was serious about really moving forward and making peace and also showed them that President Trumps leadership and diplomacy could make things happen that hadnt happened previously.      What happened is, as Israel was discussing with us providing  taking Israeli law and sovereignty to areas of the West Bank and applying it, we were having these discussions.  And over the last six weeks, the discussions between UAE and Israel started accelerating around this being a potential different path.      We all saw Ambassador Otaibas oped that came out that said that he thought applying Israeli sovereignty to this  to these areas would be detrimental to the region.  And a new course, a new option was created that was discussed that ultimately both countries thought was a much more viable option to go forward.      Israel has agreed to suspend those efforts at this time.  And as a result, were going to focus on bringing these two countries together.  This is really a historic breakthrough, and it shows that President Trumps leadership, from the Riyadh speech until today  you see a much different Middle East than what he inherited.  And hopefully, theres a lot more good things to come.      This is an icebreaker between these two countries.  This is the first Arab country to normalize relations with Israel in a long time  26 years since Jordan.  And what were going to hopefully see from there is more countries start to do the same.      The final thing Ill just say is that, here in America, the biggest threat that we saw in the last campaign was really two things.  One was ISIS.  The caliphate was growing, we were seeing journalists being beheaded, we were seeing people burnt in cages, and the threat of ISIS was something that was very scary to a lot of Americans and needed to be stopped.  The instability was providing a place for extremists to plan attacks, to plan all kinds of terrible things, and the extremists were trying to radicalize the next generation.      One of the biggest excuses that extremists use to radicalize the next generation is the mosque and  the AlAqsa Mosque  and saying that its being threatened and the fact that Muslims arent able to pray there.  This deal will allow for flights from Dubai and Abu Dhabi to Tel Aviv, which will allow Muslims a real entre to come and visit Israel peacefully and to come and pray at the mosque with whatever frequency they deem appropriate.      This is a big breakthrough.  As people go there and pray and see that this is available, theyll share it with their friends and theyll share the experiences, theyll share pictures of it on Instagram and Facebook and Twitter, and people throughout the world will see that the mosque is safe and that  that all people are welcome there.      So this is a really great step forward for the region, a great step forward for the country, and a great step forward for the world.  And again, I just want to really compliment the three leaders who worked very hard to make this possible Prime Minister Netanyahu of Israel, the Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed of Abu Dhabi, and President Trump here in America.      Thank you.     MR. OBRIEN  So, thank you to Jared for that summary.  And its  its been extraordinary work by a number of fine diplomats, working under President Trumps leadership, to arrive at todays outcome.  Jared Kushner has been at the forefront of those efforts.   Avi, Brian Hook, and others have  have put in just  just tremendous work, under the Presidents direction, to get where we are here today.     And I know, Jared, youre not a  you dont have a diplomattitle or ambassador title, but we dont have the finer ambassador, especially in the region, than Advisor Kushner.  So thank you for those  those remarks and for the really incredible effort.      I want to start by congratulating, today, the President of the United States the Prime Minister of Israel, Bibi Netanyahu and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed.  This is a remarkable achievement, and theyve been  the achievement is now  will now be known in history as the Abraham Accords, or the Ibrahim Accords in the Muslim countries, or the Avraham Accords in Israel.      Its something very special.  Its something that doesnt happen very often.  Very few of my predecessors, as National Security Advisor, have been able to come to this podium to announce a peace deal in the Middle East.  Its a  its a very rare thing.     As I said earlier in the Oval Office today, the President is going to be known in history as one of the change makers and one of the remarkable leaders in the Middle East.  And thats not something that you may have thought of when he came into office.  But one of his very first steps was repairing our relationship with Israel, which had been badly damaged, especially in the last month of the prior administration.      The President did something that was unheard of.  Many presidential candidates, going back two decades, had promised that if they were elected, they would move the United States Embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem.  President Trump had the courage to do it, and he developed wonderful credibility and a reservoir of goodwill in Israel.      He recognized the Golan Heights as being Israeli territory, and  and took those away from a very  what could have been a very destabilized situation that weve seen develop in Syria.      He destroyed the physical caliphate of ISIS, which, Jared had said, was the size of Ohio.  It was  it stretched across the Middle East, and terror reigned because of the caliphate.     He brought justice to alBaghdadi, who had killed so many Americans Sotloff and Mueller and Kassig and Foley.      He put maximum pressure on Iran and  and cut off much of the terrorist funding that was going to the proxy wars in Yemen, in Hezbollah, in Lebanon, in Syria, and throughout the region.      And today, we have the  the Abraham Accords.  Hes brought peace to the Middle East, at least peace between the UAE and Israel.  And what I have said is the President is often known as the greatest dealmaker, and he wrote the book The Art of the Deal.  And hes considered a great, great dealmaker, which he is.      But I think history is going to remember the President for being a great peacemaker.  He brought peace to Israel and the UAE.  He has signed a  his diplomat signed a historic accord in Afghanistan.  I want to remind people that we havent had an American casualty in combat in Afghanistan since February 29th.     He used his offices and his  his pressure to stop Idlib from being overrun in Syria, and brought a ceasefire agreement when  when Turkey had invaded Northern Syria.      A lot of people said that when he came into office that there would be war in North Korea.  But through personal diplomacy, hes  has kept that situation from  from turning into a kinetic event.     So, its really remarkable, I think, when you  when you step back and take a look at what this President has done on the peace front.  And it wouldnt surprise me  itll take some time in this environment  but it wouldnt surprise me if the President is eventually nominated for a Nobel Prize for the  this  todays work is an example of why he would be rightly considered and should be a frontrunner for the Nobel Peace Prize.      So, I also want to compliment the courageousness of Mohammed bin Zayed, the Crown Prince.  You know, there have been two other great Arab leaders  King Hussein  in my lifetime, King Hussein and Anwar Sadat  who have made peace with Israel.  And now, Mohammed bin Zayed enters that pantheon of great, courageous Arab leaders.      And I want to compliment President  Prime Minister Netanyahu, in Israel, who was under tremendous pressure to extend Israeli law and sovereignty to portions of the country, but is  has stepped up against that political pressure to make peace.  Something that may have been politically popular, but he put the interest of his country and his people first.     And so I think weve got some very courageous leaders that worked with the President to come to todays tremendous historical accord.      Stepping back from  what does this mean beyond the historic idea of a major Arab country making peace with Israel all these years after 1948?  It makes sense on so many different levels.  The UAE and Israel are both capable security partners of the United States, and close  close partners of ours in the region, standing up to Iran, standing up to Islamic extremism.  Theyll  them  the peace agreement between these two countries will encourage and foster cooperation in those efforts.      These are very innovative countries.  Israel is called the startup nation.  And for those of you who have been there, its  you feel like youre driving through Palo Alto through half the country.  The UAE is also a very innovative country.  Putting those two nations together is going to create a dynamic of innovation and creativity in the region.  And they  both countries are populated by incredibly dynamic people.      There are tremendous opportunities that are going to arise from this agreement.  Jared talked about the idea of Arab pilgrims and Muslim pilgrims going to the AlAqsa Mosque, going up to the Mount, and having the opportunity to pray in peace in Israel.      The  as you know, the President has made religious freedom, especially religious freedom in the Middle East, a center point  a centerpiece of his foreign policy.  And this is a great step towards fulfilling the idea that the three great faiths that came from the Holy City  Christianity, Judaism, and Islam  will be able to pray and interact peaceably together in that beautiful city of Jerusalem.     Tourism, with  Abu Dhabi and Dubai and the other Emirates have become meccas for tourism, especially before the Chinese virus  the COVID virus.  Israel is a great land for tourism.  Thatll expand trade between the UAE and Israel, which both have incredible economies.  And again, as we  as we recover from COVID, this agreement will help the economies of those countries and the countries in the region expand.  And I think youre going to see an increase in jobs in all three countries as a result of these accords.     With respect to the peace process overall, weve got a great team.  That team is going to be fanning out.  Were going to be on the  working the phones.  Were going to be in the region.  And we believe that there are other countries waiting in the wings that are going to watch and see how the  the tremendous response to the courage of Prime Minister Netanyahu and the Crown Prince have been received by their people and by the world.  And, I mean, Ive  Ive already been on the phone with a number of European counterparts who have called to congratulate us for our role in  in this accord but who are  some of whom were astounded that this took place.     And we also think that this could lead to a great deal for the Palestinian people, that  its a people that the President of the United States, President Trump, has not forgotten.  And hes  hes endorsed the twostate solution.  He wants to see the Palestinian people in a prosperous country of their own.  And the groundwork has been laid for that, so I think well be working very hard on those efforts in the  in the coming months and  and year.     So, again, today is a great day.  Its a great day for the people of the UAE, its a great day for the people of Israel, for their leaders.  And its also a great day for the United States of America as we played a role that weve traditionally played throughout the world, in coming in to mediate in difficult situations and  and achieve peace and achieve prosperity for our friends and neighbors.     And again, Im honored to be a part of the Presidents team on this.  And again, Ill end with congratulations to the President for his leadership, and again, to Prime Minister Netanyahu and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed.  Thank you very much.     MR. KUSHNER  Well start with Steve.