James S. Brady Press Briefing Room556 P.M.EDTTHE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. I appreciate you being here, and good evening. As we continue to confront the China virus, were rebuilding Americas economy like nobody thought possible, actually. Were doing incredibly well.The stock market is up almost 300 points again today. While our economy is performing significantly better than Europe  which people have to understand very strongly its performing better than any market anywhere in the world actually. At the same time, Europe has experienced a 40 percent higher excess mortality than the United States. And I will say that thats a significant number. Were working with Europe on their difficulties, and we are going to help them all the way.Were doing very well, as you know, on the vaccines and the therapeutics. But think of that We have the strongest economy  performing economy in the world. Were up  I think its 9 trillion since March  9 trillion in value. Thats a  thats a number that nobody has ever heard of before. Were also getting close to about a 50 percent number since March, which is incredible. So, its 9 trillion. Its almost 50 percent. In fact, I think it went above 50 percent today with the 300 point increase. And its  so were doing much better than Europe, significantly. And at the same time, Europe has experienced a 40 percent higher excess mortality than the United States.I just want to mention because another number of judges were approved recently. Well be, probably, over 300 judges federal judges, including court of appeals judges  approved by the end of my first term. And other than they  when they added new judges into somebodys term, which happens seldom, but we have more than any  this is a record. Nobody has ever seen anything like this in one term. So were going to have over 300 federal judges, and thats court of appeals judges, and thats just in the first term. Its  probably well finish out over 300, which is pretty amazing.The stock markets rebound signals a Vshaped recovery, stronger than our competitors anywhere in the world  stronger. If you look, youll see exactly what we have. We  we lead the world. Japan is second. But in terms of dollar value, its not even close. So there it is. A lot of great competitors Europe, United Kingdom, Japan, China, Hong Kong. The United States is leading the world, very substantially.On the second slide, youll see the virusinduced economic contraction in the United States has been far less severe than it was with our peers and peer nations. And you see that, right there theres the United States. And thats despite the fact that weve done more testing than any other nation in the world, that weve done more, by far, ventilators. Were building thousands and thousands of ventilators a month, and were distributing them all over the world. Were helping other countries.But despite all of these factors, the shallowest contraction, which is a big deal. Im sure youd love to put them in your various media outlets. I know you want to get that out. If you want to leave the room early and do that, that would be fine. The rapid recovery  but it would be nice to report it.The rapid recovery of homebuilders sentiment points to massive new construction. And we are doing massive amounts of construction of new homes, and thats because people have tremendous confidence. This is where we went, and the housing market has quickly rebounded. We were at a record, and now were going to be at a record again very shortly. Those numbers are incredible. Thats where we are. And we had to turn off the economy, and now were turning it back on, and thats beyond a V shape. This is going to be very strong its called a strong V.Automobile demand has increased 65 percent over the last three months. Sixtyfive percent automobile demand. And were anticipating that thats going to go up even further, but thats more than any  anybody else. The manufacturing sector  remember manufacturing is dead, according to the past administration of Obama and Biden? Manufacturing is dead. Youd need a magic wand. Well, you dont need a magic wand. You need competence and capability. The manufacturing sector is booming, and the Production Index is at the highest reading since October of 18, which is  was a  an extraordinary period of time. And there we are. Thats pretty good.These are numbers that nobody has seen until just recently, and now theyre just coming out. These are numbers that are leading  I guess, the stock market people, theyre very smart people. I know many of them, and theyre seeing things that they dont even believe. So, the manufacturing sector is booming, and the Production Index is at its highest reading in a long, long time.The economy generated over 9 million jobs in the last three years  a record, by far  and 12 million more jobs than experts predicted. So, there you are. You look at that, and thats a record, and its a record for the quarter. We had over 9 million  substantially more than 9 million jobs.So those are incredible numbers about our economy and how its coming back. Its coming back very strongly, and its coming back at a level thats far greater than anybody anticipated. And were very proud of that. And I give a lot of credit to all of our people  Steve and Larry.And well be talking about it. If you have any questions on it  shouldnt have any questions. I didnt  I didnt print those charts. Who did? The economy inaudible, lets see. I dont know. Well find that out for you, but it wasnt us. We took those  we took those numbers from somebody. Where did you get those numbers, Larry? Theyre from where?MR. KUDLOWIts from the BLS jobs report inaudible.THE PRESIDENT BLS jobs report.MR. KUDLOW The monthly jobs report, through July.THE PRESIDENT Okay. Everybody has that  everybody who needs?The Democrats have abandoned the American people over the simple subject of politics. Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi are holding the American people hostage over money for their radical leftwing agenda that the country doesnt want and wont accept.For example, theyve asked for a ridiculous 3.5 billion  thats billion  3.5 billion for universal mailin voting, a system riddled by fraud and corruption. You just look at what happened with the Carolyn Maloney race. They should do that race over, by the way. I think her opponent is right when he is having fits about that race. When you look at the ballot, the ballots that are missing, and the ballot frauds  nobody knows whats going on with that race, and yet they declared her a winner. So, her opponent  I dont know whats happened over the last 24 hours, but her opponent is rightfully going a little bit crazy.And then you look at what happened in Virginia, where they have 500,000 applications sent out at random to people that have no idea what happened. And they admitted they made a mistake. And many were sent to dead people and many were sent to  a number was sent  I guess, two  that at least two, three, four were sent to dogs. One was sent to a cat. Theyre sent all over the place. That was in Virginia.In Paterson, New Jersey, they had a massive amount of voter fraud. And its been a disaster. Paterson, New Jersey has been total disaster  thats universal mailin voting.So, they want 3.5 billion for universal mailin voting for the country, where you have hundreds of millions of voters. They cant do a little race with 20,000 people now they want to take it countrywide. Mailin voting  its going to be the greatest fraud in the history of elections. When you always talk about Russia, Russia, Russia, China, Iran on voting  your biggest problem is going to be with the Democrats, not with China, Russia, and Iran. Your biggest problem is going to be with the Democrats.But now the Democrats  they want 3.5 billion, think of it. But now that theyre unwilling to approve a bill that gives all of that money  of course, we would never approve an amount like that. And they also want 25 billion additional for the Post Office, Steve. Twentyfive billion for the Post Office, so the Post Office can handle this vast amount of ballots that are being sent, at random, all over the place. They have no idea where theyre going.So, they want 25 billion, and they want  think of this They want 3.5 billion. Would you say thats enough to cover it? I think we could do it for less, right? I think we could do it for less. But they want 25 billion for the Post Office because of this.And remember, the new man  who is a great person, a great businessman  he just got there a little while ago. The Post Office has been run poorly for many, many decades. Great people in the Post Office, incredible people, but theyve had very bad leadership for many years. So, well get it straightened out.But they turned down this bill because they want radicalleft agenda items that nobody in their right mind would approve. So, they want 25 billion for the Post Office. They want 2.5 or 3.5 billion for universal mailin  3.5 billion. And the bill is not going to happen because they dont even want to talk about it because we cant give them the kind of ridiculous things that they want that have nothing to do with the China virus. It has nothing at all to do with China virus, much of what theyre asking for. So, therefore, they dont have the money to do the universal mailin voting. So, therefore, they cant do it, I guess. Right?Are they going to do it even though they dont have the money? Theyre asking for the 3.5 billion. Theyre asking for 25 billion for the Post Office so they can do this, I guess, and other things. At 25 billion, I would hope it would be a lot of other things, too.But, therefore, they dont have it. They dont have the money to do the universal mailin votes. Itll be the greatest rigged election in history. Itll be the greatest fraud ever perpetrated, other than perhaps what they did to my campaign, where they spied on my campaign  President Obama, Biden, and everybody else. And they got caught. Lets see what happens. This will be one of the greatest frauds in history.So theyre admitting that they want 3.5 billion, and theyre not going to do a deal thats good for the American people. Therefore, theyre not going to get the 3.5 billion. Therefore, they cant do the universal mailin vote. Its very simple. How are they going to do it if they dont have the money to do it?The Democrats are also holding up money for schools, and hospitals, and small businesses, and state and local governments. They tried to stop Americans from getting unemployment insurance and protection from evictions, which is why I took this decisive action. And I did executive orders, which are now in full force in effect, and theyre going forward.I signed a directive to provide a total of 400 of additional support for Americans who are unemployed due to the China virus. Thats 400 more than the Democrats have provided. Remember that Thats 400 more than the Democrats have provided.Nancy and Chuck havent provided anything. And remember this President Obama, when we had a problem  a pretty big problem a very big problem  you know what he gave? Twentyfive dollars. He gave 25 bucks. So now they say, Well, we want to give 500 or we want to give 600. They dont want to give. They dont even give anything. Theyre not doing anything.But President Obama and Biden  Sleepy Joe  gave 25. Twentyfive. And theyll complain, Oh, we want to give more. Well, were giving 400, and thats now in the works, and thatll be getting out to the people soon, Steve. Okay? Remember that 25 is what they gave the last time. Twentyfive.I want to make it unmistakably clear that Im protecting people from evictions. They didnt want to do that. The Democrats didnt want to do a protection from evictions  people getting evicted because of the coronavirus or the China virus, whatever you want to call it. We have 20  now were up to 21 different names. All we know is it came out of China, and it shouldnt have. They should have stopped it.Under my executive order, HUD, HHS, and CDC have been directed to ensure renters and homeowners that they can stay safely in their homes. Theyre not going to be evicted. They are not going to be evicted. And those letters have already been sent out, Steve, so youll make sure of that.Im providing a payroll tax holiday to all Americans earning less than 100,000 per year, meaning bigger paychecks for working families through the end of 2020. Thats a tremendous amount of money thats being supplied and given to families. Tremendous.The Democrats didnt want to do a payroll tax. They thought it was too much money, I guess, or it would make businesses too successful. They dont want to see success. They certainly dont want to see it before the election. They certainly dont want to see the kind of graphs and charts that you saw up there. They dont. Because they say they cant win with that kind of success. They cant win. They have to get used to it.Remember Weve already gotten 3 trillion in stimulus, so they should have probably negotiated a little bit differently. Maybe they should have asked for all of this before they got most of the money and we gave it out  a lot of it to the people.When we win the election  when I win the election, Im going to completely and totally forgive all deferred payroll taxes without in any way, shape, or form hurting Social Security. That money is going to come from the General Fund. Were not going to touch Social Security. I said from day one that were going to protect Social Security, and were going to protect our people. And Social Security is one of the things that will be protected. Preexisting conditions will be protected. Medicare will be protected.But Social Security will be totally protected under me. Under them, it will not be protected because we will have a stock market crash the likes of which youve never seen. Your taxes will be doubled and tripled. And your regulations will go through the roof, which is what was causing the problems with the country in the first place.Student loansI signed a directive providing relief to student borrowers. Not their fault that they cant go to college. I will be deferring payments on student loans at zero interest until further notice. So were going to take care of our students. We have a lot of great students out there, and they  they got hit like everybody else. So I will be deferring payments on student loans at zero interest until further notice.And the payroll tax  well be terminating the payroll tax after I, hopefully, get elected. Well be terminating the payroll tax, so that will mean anywhere from 5,000 to even more per family, and also great for businesses and great for jobs. A lot of people will be very happy to hear that. A lot of the great  certainly, conservative economists will be great to have  they think thats the greatest thing we can do. Thats better than the payments thats better than anything else.But its a lot of money, and its  its going right directly to the people, and it goes there very easily. But it also creates stronger companies to employ the people. So we will be  on the assumption I win, we are going to be terminating the payroll tax after the beginning of the new year.Today, I met with parents, students, teachers, and health experts to discuss the vital importance of safety and safely reopening Americas schools. This evening, Ill outline the commonsense recommendations that should guide schools as they reopen with precautions. We want to be very, very safe and very careful  so, precautions in place.Our strategy to safely reopen schools mirrors our approach nationwide as we race toward the competition  and the completion  were competing with us, but Im not completing  competing with anyone. We just want to have a vaccine. We have  were dealing with other countries, and we want them to do well. Were giving them whatever information they need. Were all working towards something that will happen. It will happen before the end of the year  maybe substantially before, but before the end of the year. And therapeutics will happen, likewise, even sooner.But were looking for that responsible path forward to shelter those at highest risk, while allowing those at lower risk to resume work and school and play football. Go play football.I spoke to some of the great football players  college players  Trevor and a lot of great players. Called Coach  a coach called Coach O. A lot of fantastic people I got to speak to  athletes, leaders. They want to play football. Let them play. Let them play. And theyll  they feel safer in the field than they do walking around and doing nothing.So, hopefully, that will happen. And hopefully, when they play football, they will proudly stand for the National Anthem and they will proudly stand and  and respect the American flag  or at least Im not watching. I cant speak for others, but based on what I see now and based on what Im looking at, with respect to the NBA at this point, a lot of people agree with me. So we want people  we would like to request people  you stand proudly for the flag and for the National Anthem.In the months since the virus arrived, weve learned a great deal. While this is a dangerous and highly infectious disease, it primarily affects the oldest segment of our population or those with chronic health issues.The United States has the largest nursing home and assistedliving home population in the Western world, by far. Nearly half of all of the deaths from the China virus in the United States have occurred in nursing homes and longterm care facilities.The median age of those who succumb to the virus is 78 years old. These findings underscore that all Americans must continue to apply extreme vigilance in protecting our elderly population and those with chronic conditions. Outcomes are very different for younger Americans without serious health issues  tremendously different. They can often expect mild or moderate symptoms or even no symptoms whatsoever. They have very strong immune systems, weve learned  even more so than we ever thought.In a typical year, approximately five times as many Americans under the age of 65 die from heart disease as have so far been lost to the coronavirus from the same age group. Thats an interesting statistic.Bless  blessedly, children appear to face the lowest risk of all. Its 99.995 percent of allfatilitiesfatalities are adults. Think of that99.95. That is extremely close to 100 percent of allfatilitiesfatalities are adults.Children often have only mild symptoms, and medical complications are incredibly rare  very, very, very rare. Those that do face complications often have underlying medical conditions. In each of the last five years, the flu resulted in more deaths of those under 18 in the United States than have been lost thus far to coronavirus, by far. The flu  the flu does kill young people.Given these considerations, we believe many school districts can now reopen safely, provided they implement mitigation measures and health protocols to protect families, protect teachers, and protect students. All families should be empowered to make the decision that is right for their own circumstances. This is especially important if a child has underlying health conditions or lives with a parent or grandparent who is at a high risk.And one of the things wed like to do is when we make payment to schools  because we spend a lot of money on schools  wed like to make the payment directly to the student or to the child. And that would be to the parents, essentially, but to the child. We want to follow the child so that if a school is closed, the family can go to another school, maybe in another area, but they can do it. And wed like to make that payment  rather than paying a school thats closed, wed rather pay directly. Were following the child  where the child goes. And we want to pay the family, pay the child, and then the family can take care of the cost.And were trying to get that approved too, but the Democrats dont like doing anything, unless it means doing for the union, which controls Nancy and controls Chuck 100 percent. And I have nothing wrong with the union. I have great respect, more than  very few people do I respect more than a great teacher. Thats a tremendous talent. They  theyre really underappreciated. These are phenomenal people with tremendous talent  the great ones are among the most important people we have in this country.But  and theyll be great at other  theyll be great at charter schools. And theyll be great at  well, we talk about school choice, which wed like to see so that parents can take their children to the school of their choice. Thats something we want. We think its very important, especially in the minority communities. They want it so badly. African American, Hispanic American, Asian American  they want it so badly.But the two people I mentioned, Nancy and Chuck, theyre totally controlled by the heads of the union. I think the teachers like us a lot. Were taking care of our teachers. We want to take care of our teachers.But we cannot indefinitely stop 50 million American children from going to school and harming their mental, physical, emotional, and academic development, and inflicting longterm, lasting damage.I heard a gentleman today, a great person  some of you were at that meeting  from Harvard, say that every year is 10,000. Its a  people  they lose a tremendous amount of money in the future. He mentioned 10,000. And I think he was talking about on a yearly basis. They lose a lot by every year of education that they lost. Every year they gain, they gain 10,000. And when you have students sitting at home, playing with a computer, its not the same. Thats one thing weve learned for sure Its not the same. It can never be the same as being in a classroom. So we want to get our students in the classroom.The American Academy of Pediatrics has released guidance recommendation that schools reopen. They said, Reopen. It said, quote, Lengthy time away from school and associated interruption of supportive services often results in social isolation, making it difficult for schools to identify and address important learning deficits. The doctors, also warned about the risk of increased abuse, substance use, depression, and suicide. Suicide.The National Education Association recently stated, Despite the momentous efforts of educators during the pandemic, online learning has never been an effective replacement for inperson learning and support. So when you sit at home in a basement, looking at a computer, your brain starts to wither away. We have a lot of good experience at that, just by taking a look at whats happening in politics.Studies estimate that school closures last spring caused the average student to fall 50 percent behind in math and roughly 35 percent in reading compared to a typical year. Think of that It caused the average student to fall 50 percent behind in math and 35 percent in reading, compared to being at the school, being with your teachers, being in a classroom. Weve learned that. Weve learned that learning from a laptop is not great.And, frankly, weve also learned that telehealth  a little unrelated, but its up 35,000 percent, and its been incredible  35,000 percent. Well check that number later, but thats an incredible  but it is, people staying home. And the telehealth  that has been a tremendous success.Weve learned those two things during this period of time with the  with the plague  with the plague coming in. And those are two things we know.School closures harm lowincome students the most because they have less access to highquality remote learning  they dont have computers  and less resources for academic support.All schools should be making plans to resume inperson classes as soon as possible. To support the reopening of Americas schools, we provided 13 billion in elementary and secondary schools toward the CARES Act and CARES Act funding  were giving CARES Act funding  the vast majority of which remain available for states to use. So, a tremendous amount of money 13 billion. Thats the CARES Act funding and were giving a large portion of that for states to use.Today, Im pleased to announce that we will provide up to 125 million reusable masks to various school districts all around the country.My administration also stands ready to deploy CDC teams to support schools that are opening and schools that need help in safety and in order to safely reopen.Finally, today my administration is highlighting general recommendations for all schools and guidance to protect highrisk teachers and students. Were working very, very closely with many of the schools and school districts throughout the country.They include the followingTo ensure all students, teachers, and staff understand the symptoms of the China virus.Require all students, teachers, and staff to selfassess their health every morning before coming to school.Encourage frequent hand washing or hand sanitizing during the school day, beginning upon entrance to school, and ensuring that handwashing facilities are widely available throughout the school. And, for the most part, schools have been very good at that.Minimize large indoor gatherings. Hold large gatherings outdoors whenever possible.Maintain high standards of hygiene and ventilation within the classrooms, including keeping windows and doors open whenever possible, and running fans and air conditioning units whenever possible.Require students, teachers, and staff to socially distance around highrisk individuals and socially distance whenever possible in any event.Encourage the use of masks when social distancing is not possible.Post instructions regarding hygiene and social distancing all over the school and all around the school.We encourage schools to adopt these measures. Weve been working with so many of them. And, to the best of my knowledge, virtually every one of them agrees to do that.While were also providing highrisk teachers and students options to engage in distance teaching or learning, were working on that also. Collegeage students also continue to be one of the lowestrisk demographics. More than 99.8 percent of the deaths from this horrible disease  the invisible enemy, we call it  occur in people over 24 years of age. Think of that 99.8 percent occur in people over 24 years of age.For this reason, it could be safer for them to live at a school rather than live with their older parents or grandparents. They got to go to school. We got to open up. We got to open up our schools and open up our businesses. And a lot of it has been open, but we can do better.As we move forward, the number of cases is not, by any means, the most important metric to focus on because the fact is we have more cases because we have far more testing than any country in the world. Theres no country thats even close.Weve done more testing and better testing than any country. And many of these countries that the media was putting up as a shining example of success, theyre, right now, in massive outbreaks. You see whats going on in many of the countries that you constantly mention.Far more important is who the virus is infecting. Thats why our strategy and attention are focused on preventing the cases that are most likely to require hospitalization or result in death  those that afflict the elderly and those with certain underlying health conditions  all the while acting to prevent hospital overcrowding.If you look at some of the states that had a flareup recently, theyre all doing very well. Florida is going down rapidly. I want to give a lot of credit to the governors. Florida is going down, and Arizona is going down, way down. Theyve done a fantastic job. California, as you know, is going down. And many other locations  its doing very well. And many locations are really in fantastic shape  some with very little, if any, problem  large portions of the United States.Those advocating for a neverending, blanket, nationwide lockdown have no answer for what it would do to the mental, physical, and social health of millions of American children and people. This includes parents, where they have to stay home with their children because  and they lose their work and they lose their job because their children isnt at school. They have to have somebody to take care of it, and they want to take care of their child. They dont trust people. A society must put the health and safety of our children first.A man who has the respect of everybody  hes highly respected by me and anybody on this subject. Hes just the expert. Dr. Scott Atlas is here from Stanford, and hes been working with us for a period of time. And I thought it would be great  he was saying things to me the other day. I said it would be great if you could tell that to the media.So this is the first time Ive shared the platform. And its an honor to do so. Scott is truly  hes a brilliant man. Hes a wonderful man. And he cares about the subject very much. And Id like to ask Scott to come up please and say a few words.Thank you, Scott.DR. ATLAS Thank you, Mr. President. Its obviously a great honor to be here and a great honor to serve this President, whos really focused on the very important parts of the pandemic.And Im new here. Im just, sort of, getting involved, but I want to thank you and the Vice President and the entire team, the task force team, and all the people who are not very visible, really, for working so hard. These people are working 247, and its  its quite amazing.And I think that we  today, we had a fantastic event, that Ill just mention, on opening the schools, because the Presidents priority is to open the schools and open them safely and have parents have the options to either use open schools or do whatever they can to eventually get back to open schools, including any kind of hybrid or other arrangement they may want to do.It was a great event. We had a group of fantastic parents, teachers, medical experts, and it went very well. And so I wont spend a lot of time up here, but thank you very much and I hope I can help out in some way. Thank you.THE PRESIDENT Steve? Thank you.