James S. Brady Press Briefing Room537 P.M.  EDT    THE PRESIDENT  Thank you very much.  Nice to be with you all.  Good evening.     Before providing todays update on the China virus, I want to address the violence, looting, and rioting taking place in the Democratcontrolled cities of New York, Portland, Chicago, and Seattle.  The mayors and governors of these states and cities have an absolute duty to use all resources necessary to end the violence and all of the injury and death.     New York City has an army of great police.  I know them very well.  And the law enforcement and the New Yorks Finest are as good as it gets, and they should be allowed to do their job.  If they do their job, if theyre allowed to do their job,   the New York City problem will be solved and be solved quickly.  They do it well.     The mayor, Bill de Blasio, should immediately hire back all of the police who were fired without justification.  They were fired.  I guess thats part of Defund the Police by the Democrats.  They should hire New York Citys Finest back.  You have some incredible policemen doing specific jobs that nobody else can do, actually, when it comes to terrorism and other things.     Together, the city of Chicago and the state of Illinois have 25,000 police officers, sheriffs, and Guardsmen available to quell any violence.  They can do it very quickly, very easily if allowed to do their jobs  again, if allowed to do their jobs.  Our police, our law enforcement is incredible, but they have to be allowed to do their jobs.  The Democrats or the radicalleft Democrats  or both, because theyre becoming one and the same, if you look at election results  the Democrats are being taken over by the radical left.     The city of Portland and the state of Oregon have 10,000 fine officers and Guardsmen available.  Seattle, Washington, and Washington State have 10,000 available.  So Seattle  the city of Seattle and Washington State itself, they have great people.  They have to be allowed to do their job.  Im urging them to deploy these resources to protect their citizens and to stop the violence and all of the things that we watch on television going on  although a lot of the, unfortunately, fake news dont like to put it on because it shows that the Democrats are doing a very bad job of law enforcement.  They have to put it on.  They have to be honest with the people of this country.     But Im offering all available federal support requested to stop the violence and arrest the criminals.  We have to be asked by the governors or the mayors, and well be there very rapidly.  Its ready, willing, and able.  Were all ready, willing, and able to go to these jurisdictions and take care of them.  Well do them very quickly.  You saw what happened in Minneapolis they ripped the city apart.  When the National Guard went in, it ended immediately.  It was immediate and lasted.     These acts of destruction are not isolated incidents, but demonstrate the pattern of violent, leftwing extremism that you get to see if youre watching the right news program.  Under any rational definition, the arson attack on the police precinct in Portland would be considered an act of leftwing domestic terrorism.  They really are anarchists.  These are leftwing anarchists.  They are anarchists.  And Im directing the Department of Justice to stop these anarchists  immediately, to stop them  and to work with the city and the state to get the job done.     Local authorities have to investigate and prosecute all of these crimes immediately.  Well work with you.  And the local authorities know who they are.  They know where they come from.  They know a lot about them.  They ought to get their act together and get it done, and were ready to help.  If you need that help  you shouldnt need that help, actually.  You should be able to do it yourselves and get it done very well.  Again, you have excellent police and law enforcement, but you have to let them do their job.     What youre seeing in Portland and Seattle, New York, Chicago is really the Democrat roadmap for America.  They want every city in America to resemble Portland, in a form.  They want to pass federal legislation gutting and hamstringing every police department in America.  They want to get rid of your Second Amendment.  They want to end cash bail close prisons defund police departments  or at least largely defund.  You see that with New York.  A billion dollars they took out of their police department, and crime has gone through the roof.  And appoint farleft prosecutors who side with the criminals and target lawabiding citizens.  If the left gains power, no city, town, or suburb in our country will be safe.     On the vaccine front, some very good news.  Today, I met with the leaders of Operation Warp Speed, our historic undertaking to produce a safe and effective vaccine in record time.     We heard an update from the top scientists and the government and the leaders of pharmaceutical companies, which, right now, arent too thrilled with me.  Theyre taking millions of dollars worth of ads because Ive created a favorednation status for drugs, which is going to reduce drug prices by 40, 50, 60, and maybe even 70 percent in some cases  numbers that have never been heard or thought of.  So when you see those ads, remember That means your drug prices are coming down.  When you see ads attacking your President, its very simple  that means drug prices are going to be falling very soon.    This evening, Im pleased to announce that we have reached an agreement with Moderna to manufacture and deliver 100 million doses of their coronavirus vaccine candidate.  The federal government will own these vaccine doses were buying them.     Recently, we also secured partnerships with Johnson  Johnson, as well as Sanofi and GSX GSK to support the largescale manufacturing of their vaccines.  Doing very well on those vaccines  tremendous promise in every single one of them, and we have many of them.  And theyre years ahead of schedule.  This would have been  if it were in the previous administration or any of the previous administrations, where we are now would have taken years.     Three vaccine candidates are now in phase three trials already  the final stage of clinical trials.  This is the final stage.  We are investing in the development and manufacture of the top six vaccine candidates to ensure rapid delivery.  The military is ready to go.  Theyre ready to deliver a vaccine to Americans as soon as one is fully approved by the FDA, and were moving very close to that approval.     Were on track to rapidly produce 100 million doses, as soon as the vaccine is approved, and up to 500 million shortly thereafter.  So well have 600 million doses.  Operation Warp Speed is the largest and most advanced operation of its kind anywhere in the world and anywhere in history.     Weve treated more than 86,000 Americans with convalescent plasma.  A recent Mayo Clinic study found that this treatment may produce results which are incredible.  We look to a reduction and reduced mortality rate by 50 percent, and possibly even more than 50 percent.     I urge Americans who have recovered from the virus to go to Coronavirus.gov and sign up and donate.  We would really appreciate that because its been very successful  unbelievably successful  and we would love you to go and donate.    As we continue to confront the global pandemic, the United States economy is rebounding with strength like nobody thought possible.  Youve seen the numbers.  You see whats going on yesterday, today  and tomorrow, in my opinion.  Were very poised for a great third quarter and very poised for some great stock market numbers and 401k numbers and everything else.    Today, the Dow Jones passed 28,000 points for the first time, more than a 50 percent surge since just March.  So weve increased by 50 percent more than since just March.  It has gained approximately 9,500 points that same period  March  and has recovered nearly all of its value since the virus struck our nation  think of that.    Americas economy is incredible, and its economic recovery is outpacing our peer nations.  Last quarter, the European Unions GDP decline was nearly 40 percent worse than the United States.  So its 40 percent worse than the United States.  Weve built such a strong base that were able to do things and sustain better than anybody in the world, by far.    Frances GDP decline was nearly 80 percent worse than ours.  And Spain experienced an economic contraction twice as severe as the United States.    Nationwide, we continue to see improvements in our fight against the pandemic  very substantial improvements.  Since last week, 87 percent of the counties in the United States report declining cases.  Think of that 87 percent of the counties in the United States, they reported declining cases.    Mortality has declined by 7 percent, and hospitalizations are declining rapidly.  States that were primary hotspots, such as Florida, Texas, and Arizona have reduced cases by nearly 25 percent.  But all Americans must remain vigilant, practice good hygiene, socially distance, wear a mask whenever possible.  Whenever you are getting too close to people, wear a mask.  And protect the elderly  always protect the elderly.     Since the end of July, the sevenday average for cases in the United States has fallen by nearly 20 percent, but the virus continues to increase in nations across the globe.    Last week, France and Germany both recorded their highest daily number of new cases in three months  not that I want to bring that up, but might as well explain it to the media.  The sevenday case average for Germany has increased by 62 percent since last week, unfortunately  and that is truly unfortunate.  Its increased 82 percent in France, 113 percent in Spain, and 30 percent in the United Kingdom.  Those are big increases.  Cases are also rapidly increasing in the Netherlands, Sweden, Belgium, Switzerland, Slovakia, Estonia, and other European countries.  And in our country, theyre going down.  We will be seeing that even more rapidly as time goes by  a short time.     Even though America is the largest atrisk population  including 1.5 million residents of nursing homes, about five times that of other European countries  Europe has experienced a nearly 40 percent higher excess mortality rate than the United States.  We also have fewer deaths per capita, excluding the disastrous deaths from the New York tristate area  which had a very, very hard time  and did better than our peer nations of Western Europe, thanks to our excellent and highly advanced medical care and skill  something that the news doesnt tell you.  They dont tell you that.  They dont like to tell you that.    The United States has now conducted more than 66 million tests, far more than any other nation in the world.  India, which has a population of 1.5 billion people, has done 24 million.  So were at 66 million.  And think of it India is at 24 million, and India is second.     The entire region of Latin America, comprising 33 countries, has conducted 25 million tests.  Yet, Latin America has more confirmed cases, by far, than the United States.     As we safely restore our great economy and reopen our schools  and hopefully we can watch colleges play football.  We want to get football in colleges.  These are young, strong people.  They wont have a big problem with the China virus.  So we want to see college football start, and, hopefully, a lot of great people are going to be out there.  Theyre going to be out there, playing football, and theyll be able to fight it off.  And hopefully, it wont bother them one bit.  Most of them will never get it, statistically.  But we know well see more cases at some point, and we will eventually develop sufficient immunity, in addition to everything else that were doing.    So, college football, get out there and play football.  People want to see it.  And stand for your American flag, stand for your national anthem because people are not happy when that doesnt happen.     You look at the NBA and whats happening with the NBA and their poor ratings.  I dont know cant imagine why.  But they didnt stand, they didnt show respect to our flag.  They didnt show respect to our anth  our National Anthem.  And maybe thats having an impact, but just not good.    The NFL had its problems, two years ago, when that happened.  They went way down in their ratings and their fans, and they struggled back.  And now, all of a sudden, theyre putting themselves in the same position.  So stand for your flag and stand for the National Anthem, and I think youre going to do fantastically well.  Because a lot of people arent going to watch if you dont Im one of them.    Thats why our strategy and attention are focused on preventing the cases that are most likely to require discussing the opening of schools, hospitalization, or produce any death.  We have to maintain vigilance over our elderly population.  Weve learned that, I think, more than any single event, Scott.  We have to be very vigilant all over, but we have to really protect our elderly population, and especially our elderly population that has problems with heart, lung, any form of sickness  diabetes, in particular.     And we are, at the same time, in very good shape with respect to hospital room and hospital overcrowding.  Were in great shape.    On the nursinghome front, protecting our nursing home residents is a critical focus of our strategy.  HHS recently announced that they will use the Provider Relief Fund to deliver an additional 5 billion to further protect nursing homes and longterm care facilities as they continue to combat the China virus.     Weve delivered over 1,800 rapid pointofcare testing devices to nursing homes.  And were in the process of delivering these vice  devices to all 15,000 Medicare and Medicaidcertified nursing homes by the end of September.  So theyre going to have very, very rapid tests.  They wont have to wait around two or three days or four days.     And that number has come down very substantially, compared to what it was.  When you send it to the labs, you get very accurate tests, but it takes a period of time to send it, to check it, and then to send it back.  But we are now at a position where were sending very, very rapid tests  5 minutes to 15 minutes.    We will care for Americas seniors as we develop the vaccine and therapeutics.  And therapeutics are coming along very, very well.  We think we have some great answers on therapeutics, and youll be hearing that  about them in the very near future.  Im very much into the world of therapeutics, where you go into the hospital, and you give a shot, or you do what you have to do with a, perhaps, transfusion.  Theres combinations of what you can do, and people get better.  I like that very much.  I like that very, very much.     And that could even precede  and its successful in getting it  that will, I think, probably, even precede vaccines.  But therapeutically, were doing very, very well.  A lot of people are going to be very happy when they see some of the numbers that were  that Im seeing, and some of the results.     So, tremendous things are happening on the vaccine front and the therapeutic front, and our country should be very proud of itself.  Were going to get it delivered very rapidly, as soon as it comes out.     Okay.  Questions, please?  Please, go ahead.