James S. Brady Press Briefing Room548 P.M. EDT    THE PRESIDENT  Thank you very much.  I thought Id start by talking about some mailin voting that just was revealed  just the news.  Half a million incorrect absentee ballot applications were sent all across the state of Virginia, including to many dead people.  This was an unprecedented mailing flub thats heightened concerns about the integrity of expanding mailin voting and mailin voting efforts.  Its a disaster  all over Virginia, half a million votes.  So thats something you have to think about.     We dont want to have a rigged election, I know that.  And you have to be very careful when you mention, as you constantly do, Russia or you mention China or you mention Iran or others that attack our election system.  And when you have this mailin voting, its a  its very susceptible.  Its something that can be easily attacked by foreign countries and by, frankly, Democrats and by Republicans.  And I think that its something you have to start thinking about very seriously.     Our system is not equipped for it.  The Post Office is not equipped for it.  And people should vote, like they did in World War One and World War Two.  And your numbers will be  in 90 days or less, your numbers will be very good, I think  much better  on the coronavirus or the China virus.  But its something you have to look about  look at and say, This is just crazy.     This just came out half a million incorrect ballot applications sent all over the state of Virginia to many people that werent living.  They had some sent to pets  dogs.  This is what were going to get into, and its going to be a disaster.  And its going to be thought of very poorly, and its going to hurt our country.     After our news conference Saturday night and the progrowth announcement  were projobs, prohealth safety  executive orders  the stock market went up 358 points today.  So we  we issued those executive orders, and the stock market went up 358 points today.  Its quite a reaction.    The Dow Jones and the SP 500 are now up 50 percent since March  50 percent.  Think If you had money in there, if you put your money in in March, you have 50 percent.  The Nasdaq index continues to set new records.  Its been up over 14 times new record in Nasdaq.     And the SP 500 and the Dow  Dow Jones are going to be  I mean, the way theyre going, it looks like theyre just about going to be topping records, hopefully, soon.    SECRET SERVICE AGENT  Sir, were just going to have to step out in the hall inaudible.    THE PRESIDENT  Excuse me?    SECRET SERVICE AGENT  We will step out outside.  Inaudible.