James S. Brady Press Briefing Room118 P.M. EDT     MS. MCENANY  Hello, everyone.  Democrats in Congress failed to act in the best interests of Americans hardest hit by this pandemic.  Amid inaction, President Trump stood up for every American who, through no fault of their own, needed relief.     Politics as usual should find no place during this pandemic, but Democrats rejected multiple clean bills to provide relief.  The American people are tired of games.  They seek leadership, and President Trump delivered.     This weekend, President Trump took executive action designed to provide the relief Democrats have denied to those who need it most.  Through four executive orders, he took the following steps     On the payroll tax, he deferred payments of the employee portion of certain payroll taxes from September 1st through the end of 2020.      On unemployment assistance, states will provide 25 percent cost sharing, amounting to a total of 400 per week in benefits through the end of the year.     And then, third, he extended the eviction protections.  President Trump will direct HUD to prevent evictions resulting from financial hardships caused by the virus, doing everything in his executive capacity to make sure those renting and those homeowners are protected.     Finally, on student loans, he extended 0 percent interest and suspended loan payments through the end of the year.     The bottom line is that these actions will help Americans.  President Trump is for the American people, and Democrats failed to deliver.     Also, earlier this year, hundreds of Americans  working men and women  at the Tennessee Valley Authority  the TVA  were told that they would lose their jobs to lowerpaid foreign workers imported from abroad, and then ser  suffered the further indignity of training their foreign replacements.     President Trump boldly and resolutely intervened in defense of these hardworking Americans  rallying to their case, rushing to their aid, and taking action to restore their jobs.  He invited laidoff workers and their representatives to the White House, and then he fired the chairman of the board of the TVA and one other board member.     President Trump offered an ultimatum The firings would continue until the cruel and heartless decision to fire the hardworking Americans was reversed.  TVA did reverse.  Layoffs have been canceled, and tech workers have been rehired.      In the words of Gay Henson, president of the Engineering Associates, IFPTE, Local 1937  the labor union representing the 2  the 2,200 highly skilled professionals employed by the TVA  in Ms. Hensons words, The Presidents personal intervention saved these jobs, restored the workers to their rightful place, and set TVA on the path to returning to its mission of service to both the workers at the TVA and to the people of this country.     And, with that, Ill take questions.  Yes.