Trump National Golf ClubBedminster, New Jersey421 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Thank you very much everybody. Thank you, and good afternoon. My administration has been working around the clock in good faith to reach an agreement with Democrats on additional China virus relief.Already, my administration has enacted over 3 trillion in historic relief, saving many tens of millions of dollars and jobs. And you see how fast the economy is coming back. It does look like its going to be a very sharp V. We have tremendous enthusiasm, tremendous spirit, and tremendous job growth. We set a record on number of jobs in the last three months. Its the most jobs ever created in a threemonth period  during a threemonth period. Thats great.Before we begin, Ive just signed two bills that are great for our vets. Our vets are very special. We passed Choice, as you know  Veterans Choice  and Veterans Accountability. And theyve been trying to get that passed for decades and decades and decades, and no President has ever been able to do it. And we got it done so veterans have Choice. And now you have Accountability  that if you dont love your vets, if youre in the VA and you dont love the vets or take care of the vets, you can actually get fired if you dont do your job. We want people that love our vets.The first expands the eligibility for vets with blindness in both eyes. So we have an expansion of benefits, an expansion of various elements of being and working with the VA for vets with blindness and  in particular, blindness in both eyes. And we have a lot of problems with blindness in the VA, and were doing something about it. Theyve been talking about this for many years. So that is expanding eligibility for vets with blindness in both eyes. Okay?Second is  requires the VA to establish a treatment court program for vets who need treatment rather than punishment for certain nonviolent crimes. And you know what that all means, and its really something that theyve been trying to get done for a long time. The second requires the VA to establish a treatment court. So this is a treatment court program for vets who need treatment rather than punishment for certain nonviolent crimes. Okay? I think its selfexplanatory.Weve wanted this for a long time, theyve been trying to get it for a long time, and now we have it. And I want to thank everybody for helping us get that done. We had a lot of support from a lot of great people, including people in the VA.In the current negotiations, we have repeatedly stated our willingness to immediately sign legislation providing expanded unemployment benefits, protecting Americans from eviction, and providing additional relief payments to families. Democrats have refused these offers they want to negotiate. What they really want is bailout money for states that are run by Democrat governors and mayors, and that have been run very badly for many, many years  and many decades, in fact. You know the states everybody knows who were talking about and what were talking about. I dont think we have to go over it.But what the Democrats primarily want is bailout money. It has nothing to do with the China virus. It has nothing to do with anything that weve been talking about over the last period of time. They want to bailout states that have been badly managed by Democrats, badly run by Democrats for many years  and, in fact, in all cases, many decades. And were not willing to do that.Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer have chosen to hold this vital assistance hostage on behalf of very extreme partisan demands and the radicalleft Democrats, and we just cant do that. So, hopefully, we can do something with them at a later date, but were going to be signing some bills in a little while that are going to be very important, and will take care of, pretty much, this entire situation.As we know it and as you have been covering it in some cases  actually covering it accurately  many of the farleft policies theyre pushing have nothing to do, again, with what we have been working on so hard  namely, the corona. You can call it so many different names. What a horrible thing China released upon the world.One third of their bill  the HEROES Act  is spending completely unrelated money to the virus. Here are just a few of the policies in their extremeleft bill. And, again, this is a bill supported by Biden, and Biden is totally controlled now by the Bernie Sanders left wing of the party. And, in fact, hes gone further left than Bernie Sanders ever dreamt of going. So, obviously, other than Bernie have brought him left. If you look at the manifesto that theyve agreed to, its far further left than Ive ever heard anything about Bernie Sanders.The massive taxpayer bailout of badly run blue states we talked about  thats one of the things theyre looking to do. Measures designed to increase voter fraud. Banning voter ID they want to ban voter ID. We should have voter ID in every state. Every state should have voter ID. You have ID on everything you do, practically, yet every  everybody has voter ID. Everybody has ID except for voters. When you vote, you dont want ID they dont want We have some states with it it works out great. And if you want to stop fraud in elections, have voter ID. They want measures designed to increase voter fraud, which is banning voter ID in all states and banning requirements for signature verification in federal elections.Now, why would they want, in this bill  which really has nothing to do with what were talking about stimulus  something banning voter ID? In every single state, they want to ban it, including states where we already have it, because we have some states where we have it  Indiana and others that do very well.Why would they want to ban voter ID in all states? And why would they want to ban requirements for signature verification in federal election? Who would want a bill banning signature verification? Whats that all about?You know what its about? Fraud. Thats what they want fraud. They want to try and steal this election because, frankly, its the only way they can win the election.The bill also requires all states to do universal mailin balloting  which nobody is  nobody is prepared for  regardless of whether or not they have the infrastructure. They want to steal an election. Thats all this is all about They want to steal the election.So, in the bill, they have a bill that requires all states to do universal mailin balloting, regardless of whether or not they have the infrastructure. Like in Nevada, its such a disaster. Their infrastructure is a total disaster. They dont want to have signature verification, they dont want to have any of the safeguards that you need, and they dont want to have safeguards that are so common and so basic and even other states that we disagree with have. This Nevada thing is a mess, but well see how the courts determine  what the courts determine. But they certainly dont have the infrastructure in Nevada. So well see how it is.As you know, we brought suit last week, and well see how that all works out. I think were going to win it. But, basically, what theyre trying to do with all of these requirements, including no signature verification Theyre trying to steal an election.And I was in Ohio, I was in Texas, I was in Florida over the last four or five days. And if you would see the crowds along the highways and the roadways, people have said theyve never seen anything like it, and they havent seen anything like it. And the press doesnt report it because theyre fake news.They even want to force states to implement the controversial practice known as ballot harvesting  a very dangerous practice  meaning they would allow Democrat Party operatives to deposit thousands and thousands of completed ballots at the post office without any verification of who filled them out, including a verification of signatures on the ballots. So youre not even going to have a verified signature. Anybody  I could sign it. You could sign it. Anybody in this room could sign it. And thats going to count as a vote. How can you do a thing like this?So this is what theyre asking for. This is what Nancy Pelosi and Crying Chuck Schumer are asking for.AUDIENCE Laughter.THE PRESIDENT Okay? Its ridiculous. Its horrible. Its a horrible thing.The Democrat bill includes stimulus checks for illegal aliens. So if you were able to get into our country illegally  and our border is, as you know, doing very well right now. We have a very strong border, and the wall is up to 276 miles. And well be completed with it around the end of the year. Were going to do some extra mileage in certain areas that people didnt realize were so bad, so well be completed with it. Right after, were going to do the additional mileage. Well do it probably a little bit after the year.I think, from what Ive heard, Joe Biden  Sleepy Joe  wants to rip the wall down. He wants people to pour into our country. They want to have open borders. We dont want to have open borders.So the Democrat bill includes stimulus checks for illegal aliens. They require the mass release of illegal aliens from detention. They also compel the mass release of inmates, including serious felons. How do you like that one? And this is in the bill that were talking about? What does this have to do with stimulus, the economy? What does this have to do with the coronavirus? Another name. What does this have to do with this?So, think of that They required the mass release of illegal aliens from detention. What does this have to do with what were trying to do? They want to put this  and this is a radicalleft policy, so they can go to Portland and try and rip the place apart that theyve been doing for many years and theyve been doing for years and years.They also compel the mass release of inmates. What does this have to do with what were talking about? This is Nancy Pelosi  Crazy Nancy  and Chuck Schumer. They want to compel you to do this stuff, and this has nothing to do with what were talking about, and it includes serious felons. They want to have these people released on a mass basis, including serious felons.Thats page 1,689 page 1,762. Think of it 1,762. And thats nowhere near the end of their bill. They have things in there that nobody has even at the time to look at or read. These people  I dont  I honestly dont believe they love our country, you want to know the truth.In addition to demanding these extreme partisan provisions, Democrats are actively blocking the following measures support for K12 schools to help them safely open, additional funding for the Paycheck Protection Program to help millions of workers on the payroll. This is a great program. Very successful. Kept a lot of businesses open. Thats why were doing so well in reopening our country. Additional money for hospitals. Testing and vaccines. Direct payments of 3,400 for a family of four.Now, remember, this is what the extreme partisans  this  we got  we have to  this is what were talking about. Democrats are actively blocking the things that we want. And what we want is good for people. Those  these are things that theyre blocking support for K12 schools, so they can open. Think of that.Also, direct payments of the 3,400 for a family of fourplus, then funding for childcare and mental health care. And you need that, especially when you have so much of a lockdown. You need that mental health care.Funding for broadband, airports, and agriculture, rental assistance, and support for community banks and credit unions to help them provide 100 billion in loans to the hardesthit communities, including rural communities and farmers. They dont want anybody to get that. Democrats are obstructing all of it.Therefore, Im taking executive action. Weve had it. And were going to save American jobs and provide relief to the American workers, and Ill be signing these bills in a very short period of time.First one is on providing a payroll tax holiday to Americans earning less than 100,000 per year. In a few moments, I will sign a directive, instructing the Treasury Department to allow employers to defer payment of the employee portion of certain payroll taxes from September 1st. And were actually going to be making that we just got the word. Were just getting some word from a lot of people. We didnt think wed have to do this because we thought the Democrats would be reasonable, but theyve been not only unreasonable, theyve been ridiculous.So were going to make that August 1st, most likely. Itll be August 1st. Well let you know the exact date, but were looking like August 1st. So itd be August 1st through the end of 2020. This will mean bigger paychecks for working families, as we race to produce a vaccine and eradicate the China virus once and for all.And were doing very good with the numbers. You see its going down in Arizona very, very substantially and rapidly. Going down in California. Going down in Texas. Going down in Florida. Other areas are propping up a little bit, but were watching them very closely. We understand the disease, and were watching them very closely, especially our senior citizens and our senior citizens residences.If Im victorious on November 3rd, I plan to forgive these taxes and make permanent cuts to the payroll tax. So Im going to make them all permanent.Now, Joe Biden and the Democrats may not want that. They dont want that because theyre adding 3 trillion in taxes. So theyll have the option of raising everybodys taxes and taking this away.But if I win, I may extend and terminate. In other words, Ill extend it beyond the end of the year and terminate the tax. And so, well see what happens. Biden probably wont be doing that youll have to ask him. I dont think he knows what hes doing.AUDIENCE Laughter and applause.THE PRESIDENT Second, Im signing an executive order directing the Department of Housing and Urban Development, HHS, and CDC to make sure renters and homeowners can stay in their homes.So Im protecting people from eviction. Yet youve been hearing a lot about eviction, and the Democrats dont want to do anything having to do with protecting people from eviction. I said, Lets do that separately. That can be a totally separate thing from passing along money so people can live. And they didnt even want to protect people from eviction.So, they would get evicted  its not their fault that this virus came into our country its Chinas fault. And came into the world  by the way, a lot of the people, a lot of the states that were doing the best are having some problems. A lot of the states that we werent thinking were doing the best are doing very well.You look at some of the countries involved. Some of the countries that were really standing out as examples are now exploding. But theyll get it down they understand it. Were dealing with them. Were dealing with a lot of countries.Were providing thousands and thousands of ventilators all over the world right now. We make a lot of ventilators. We started off with very little, and were making a lot. And we have thousands in our stockpile, but were making thousands a month. And were providing many of them  thousands and thousands  to other countries that would never be able to get them.The Department of Housing and Urban Development will also provide financial assistance to struggling renters and homeowners, and work with landlords and lenders to keep Americans safely in their homes. So we dont want people being evicted. And the bill  the act that Im signing will solve that problem, largely  hopefully, completely.The third action Im taking today will also provide additional support for Americans who are unemployed due to the China virus. Under the CARES Act, I proudly signed expanded unemployment benefits into law. Congressional Democrats have stonewalled our efforts to extend this relief. They even oppose measures that would give bonuses to workers returning to the job. They were totally opposed to that.For this reason, Im taking action to provide an additional or an extra 400 per week in expanded benefits 400. Okay? So, thats generous, but we want to take care of our people. Again, it wasnt their fault it was Chinas fault.States will be asked to cover 25 percent of the cost using existing funding, such as the tens of billions of dollars available to them through the Coronavirus Relief Fund. Under this plan, states will be able to offer greater benefits if they so choose, and the federal government will cover 75 percent of the cost. So were all set up. Its 400 per week.And were doing that without the Democrats. We should have been able to do it very easily with them, but they want all of these additional things that have nothing to do with helping people.Fourth, I am signing a directive providing relief to student loan borrowers. Earlier this year, we slashed student loan interest rates to zero. I dont know if people know that because the press doesnt ever report it, but maybe theyre watching now.AUDIENCE Laughter.THE PRESIDENT The press doesnt report a lot of good things that are good for the people and good for the country.Earlier this year, we slashed student loans interest rates to zero percent and suspended student loan payments, and Congress extended that policy through September 30th. Today, Im extending this policy through the end of the year, and well extend it further than that  most likely, right after December 1st. So we look like were going to be extending that. Theyre paying zero interest. And again, not their fault that their colleges are closed down and not their fault that theyre unable to get what they bargained for.Through these four actions, my administration will provide immediate and vital relief to Americans struggling in this difficult time. And the beautiful thing about this difficult time is were now coming back and setting records.Well also ensure that our economic comeback continues full speed ahead. And with the 400 and all of the other measures that were talking about and will be signing in a little while, that will happen.Were further looking at additional tax cuts, including income tax relief, income tax cuts, and capital gains tax cuts. So were going to be looking at that  capital gains  for the purpose of creating jobs, and income tax is selfexplanatory. And itll be income tax for middleincome and lowerincome people, but middleincome people because they pay a lot of income tax and you do have tax inequality. Im saying that as a Republican, and you do have tax inequality.So were going to be looking at income tax, and were going to be looking at capital gains tax cuts on both, and maybe substantial. And well be reporting back fairly shortly on that. Thats big news. Thats big news, but very important. We want to have our jobs flourish. We want to have our companies do great. We want to have the 401ks, which are now at a level  if you look at the stock market, its great.If you have stocks in NASDAQ, youre higher than you ever were, including even  this is still during the pandemic. The stock market  because they see such incredible things are happening, smart people  the stock market is that almost an alltime high. Were just short of it. And NASDA