Trump National Golf ClubBedminster, New JerseyAugust 7, 2020734 P.M. EDT    THE PRESIDENT  Well, thank you very much.  And its a great honor to have everybody here.  And I know the press was not quite expecting this, so I appreciate your being able to attend.  We have a terrific number of things, and some very positive things to tell you tonight.     I want to begin by giving an update on the economy.  Economic health is vital to public health.  Thats why our strategy to kill the China virus has focused on protecting those at greatest risk while allowing younger and healthy Americans to safely return to work and safely return to school.  Very important.     We added 1.8 million new jobs in July, exceeding predictions for the third month in a row, and adding a total of over 9.3 million jobs since May.  And I will say that the job growth that weve seen over the last three months  9.3 million  is the single greatest threemonth period of job creation in American history.  Thats big stuff.  Thats big news and great news.     Over the past three months, the United States has surpassed market expectations by a total of 12 million new jobs.  Over the last three months, the United States has added 623,000 manufacturing jobs.  Remember Youd need a magic wand to get manufacturing jobs?  And were getting them even in a pandemic  which is disappearing its going to disappear.     And 639,000 brandnew construction jobs.  Over half of the new jobs are fulltime jobs, and wages are up by 4.8 percent, which is terrific.  Unemployment has fallen by nearly 30 percent since April.  Think of that 30 percent since April.     Hispanic American unemployment has decreased by nearly 32 percent.  Jobs held by African Americans, which were hit especially hard by the shutdowns  incredibly hard  increased by nearly 1 million over the past three months, and thats also a record.  Thats a job record African American, 1 million.  Its job record.    We must ensure that the progress continues.  My administration has enacted over 3 trillion in historic relief since China allowed the virus to infect the world.  So weve contributed 3 trillion.    My administration continues to work in good faith to reach an agreement with Democrats in Congress that will extend unemployment benefits provide protections against evictions  the terrible thing happens with evictions.  Not fair.  It wasnt their fault that we were infected with this disease from China.  And get relief to American families.     Yet, tragically, Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer continue to insist on radical leftwing policies that have nothing to do with the China virus.  Nothing to do with it at all.  So you have a virus that comes in, and you have people in Congress that dont want to help our people.     If Democrats continue to hold this critical relief hostage, I will act, under my authority as President, to get Americans the relief they need.  And what were talking about is deferring the payroll tax for a period of months until the end of the year.  And I can extend it at a certain period.  Hopefully, I will be here to do the job.  Were going to do the job weve been doing the job like nobody could.  Nobody would, actually.  And so, were going to have the payroll tax go until the end of the year, and itll be retroactive to July 1st.  So were going to go back to July 1st, and itll go to the end of the year  payroll tax.  At the end of the year, it may be extended.    Were going to enhance unemployment benefits through the end of the year.  So unemployment benefits will be  thats a big one  will be brought out to the end of the year.     And defer student loan payments and forgive interest until further notice  so students who are paying student loans and, in many cases, theyre not even allowed to go back into their colleges.    Extend the eviction moratorium  we will be extending that so people arent evicted.  Not their fault.     We had a lengthy discussion this morning with President Macron of France, concerning numerus subjects, but in particular, the catastrophic event which took place in Beirut, Lebanon.  Horrible, horrible event.    At 3 p.m. this afternoon, I spoke with President Aoun of Lebanon to inform him that three large aircraft on the  are on the way, and theyre fully loaded  fully loaded with medical supplies, food, water, and many other things, lots of emergency equipment.  Also first responders, technicians, doctors, and nurses are on their way.  This was an event like the world has not seen for a long time.  A horrible event.    Well be having a conference call on Sunday with President Macron, leaders of Lebanon, and leaders from various parts of the world.  Everyone wants to help.  We spoke to a lot of people they all want to help.     The United States is with authorities on the ground right now in Lebanon to identify further health and humanitarian needs, and we will provide further assistance in the period to come.  Were working very closely with their government and with their leaders.    And on behalf of the United States, I want to extend our condolences to all of the families  a much larger number of families than anybody would have thought and than anybody at first thought  but all of those families who lost loved ones, relatives, friends in this horrible tragedy.  We stand firmly with the people of Lebanon and will continue to offer our full support through this very difficult time.  We have not seen anything like this in a long time.    As you know, earlier this week I met with American workers at the Tennessee Valley Authority who have been laid off by the leadership at the Tennessee Valley Authority.  As you know, this is a form of utility.  Its been around for a long time, since FDR.     And the head person  not controlled by government, but its sort of semipublic, in a sense  gets paid the highest salary in the world of government.  He gets 8 million a year.  Thats not a bad amount of money.  Its 8 million a year.  And we are not accepting that.  Even though were not the ones that appoint him or her  but, in this case, him  were not accepting somebody getting paid 8 million a year.  This has been going on for many years.  And we will do something about that, and were already in negotiations right now, including possible termination.     They and hundreds of their fellow American tech workers  the workers at TVA  were being terminated from their positions on top of all of this, and on top of the 8 million salary, and a chief of staff who makes much more than a million dollars a year.  But, on top of all that, they were being terminated from their positions  these incredible people  in order to train the lowercost foreign workers imported to replace them.  Hows that for a law?  And this was set up, originally, to create jobs and economic development, and now theyre getting fired, and theyre supposed to train people for a much lower  who get a much lower salary.  Its crazy.    This was a grave injustice.  I fired the chairman of the board in response.  On Friday, I fired the chairman of the board, along with one other board member.  Thats the one thing we have we have the right to fire board members.  And I made it clear that if they did not swiftly reverse course, I would continue with these firings of the board members.  And we just were informed that they have agreed to change course, totally.     And today, Im proud to announce that a major victory for the workers of Tennessee and Kentucky and other areas that are covered  great states, great states  that the leadership of the TVA has canceled all of the layoffs and given hundreds of American workers their jobs back.  Theyre being rehired as we speak.    In this administration, we live by two rules Buy American and hire American.  You cant do that you cant fire all our workers and hire people back from other faraway parts of the world at lower prices, especially when they have to train the people.  And they can never train them as good as what you have, because theyve been there for many years.  Theyve done a fantastic job, and they love the TVA.     We had a lot of people in the office the other day  a lot of the media was covering it.  They love the Tennessee Valley Authority.  So  and theyre so proud to work for it.  But this happened and it was a terrible thing, so now theyre going to get their jobs back  theyre all going to be getting their jobs back.    Nearly every nation on Earth continues to combat the virus.  A number of countries are seeing a surge in new cases, including Japan, the Philippines, major parts of Europe.  Cases continue to surge in Latin America.  Thats, right now, the most infected place anywhere in the world.  They have more than doubled in recent days.  Latin America is doing very little testing.  Theyre not really equipped to do that.  Its tough.     In the United States, more than 80 percent of jurisdictions report decline in cases.  Were doing very well.  You dont hear that too often from the media, but were doing very well.  We have a very large country  a very complex country, in a sense.  More than half of Americas counties report fewer than 20 cases last week.  So, if you look at that, more than half of Americas counties report fewer than 20 cases last week.  But we have to remain vigilant.  Were doing very well, but we have to remain vigilant.    Nationally, the percentage of emergency room visits with the coronavirus symptoms is down to almost half what it was in July.  The southern states that were very strong hotspots not long ago  Arizona, Texas, Florida  continue to show significant improvement, including increased availability of hos  hospital beds.     Arizona now has the smallest number of coronavirus inpatients.  Since midJune, its gone  the governor was up, and we had a great meeting  Governor Ducey.  And the meeting was terrific.  But since midJune  so theyre doing well, and its going down  heading down very rapidly, actually.    Texas is stabilizing and improving rapidly with some progress in the Rio Grande Valley, and other communities along the border with Mexico that had shown the biggest increases in hospitalizations and deaths.    Florida is also stabilizing, and statewide positive test rate continues to decrease  from 13 percent on July 23rd, to 8 percent this week.  Florida has done very well.  Its going down its heading down, actually, quite rapidly.  And even Miami, which was the hottest spot in Florida, is heading downward.  But Florida has done very well.    Texas has done very well, and rapidly.  And Arizona has done incredibly well.  So it  Arizona has really been a very rapid drop.    New Jersey and New York remain stable with less than 1 percent of emergency room visits due to the China virus  the illness.  It took a devastating toll on both states, as you know.  While both states really took the brunt of the infection earlier this year, thankfully we have not seen a resurgence.  Theyve been doing a good job.  Everybody is working very hard.  Both governors are working very, very hard.  Were in touch with them.  Were supplying them with a lot of supplies as needed, if needed.  But theyre needing very little right now.  Theyre in very good shape.  We will continue to monitor the new cases.    Throughout this crisis, my administration has provided extraordinary support of people, equipment, medical supplies to the people of New Jersey, the people of New York, and to the people of every state  all of our states.     Were carefully monitoring Californias Central Valley, as well as San Diego, Los Angeles, Sacramento, and San Francisco, which are starting to stabilize and go down.     Were carefully watching regions from increasing cases, including Boston and Chicago, as well as the Midwest.  Were watching them all very carefully.  Its vital that all Americans work together to protect the vulnerable.     For this reason, weve delivered vast amounts of protective equipment and testing supplies to nursing homes all across America.  Were focused very much on the elderly, especially the elderly where they have heart problems or diabetes problems.  Diabetes is a big problem.  Approximately half of all deaths have occurred in nursing homes and longterm care facilities.  Thats an incredible number, when you hear half of the deaths have been in nursing homes and longterm care facilities.     And I will tell you that I met with owners and representatives of nursing homes, and they are very, very vigilant.  Theyre doing a very good job now.  Theyve really done something that I think is special.  Theyre doing very well, in terms of the virus.  Theyre working very hard.  And a lot of things happen  a lot of forces came together and hit the nursing homes very hard.  But the representatives of nursing homes  in some cases, the ownership of nursing homes  theyre working very hard.    The federal government and the private sector have delivered more than 9 million N95 masks, 27 million surgical masks, 3 million face shields, 20 million gowns, and 668 million gloves to New Jersey alone.  Think of that.  We provided 3.4 billion to the state of New Jersey in emergency relief funding.  So we happen to be in New Jersey right now, so those are great numbers.  The governor is working very hard Governor Murphy is doing a good job.  Were working very closely with him.  Weve also provided nearly 5 billion to New Jersey hospitals and healthcare facilities.     And through the Paycheck Protection Program that you all know so well, we provided 23 billion to support more than 250,000 New Jersey small businesses.  A lot of the small businesses that you see that are opening now and going to do well, theyre there because of what we did with Paycheck Protection.    On therapeutics and vaccine updates Three vaccine candidates have now moved into phase three trials.  This would be years ahead of schedule.  We have done wonders with the FDA.  I want to thank the FDA and all of the great people there and Dr. Hahn.  But we have phase three trials already going on, which is, most people would have said, impossible to even think about.     Today, Pfizer announced that it will manufacture Gileads drug, remdesivir  where weve had tremendous success.    Last week alone, my administration procured and distributed over 120,000 vials of remdesivir, enough to treat more than 19,000 patients.  Plasma treatments continue to show incredibly encouraging results, really incredible whats going on.  And if you can go to a blood bank  if youve had this disease and  and beat it  and there are a lot of people that have  if you could go to a blood bank and donate, that would be a tremendous help.    The United States is only 5 percent of the worlds population, but we have conducted over 25 percent of the worlds testing.  Think of that 5 percent and weve given 25 percent of the worlds testing.  Any proper global analysis of confirmed cases must really take this into account, because were constantly showing cases  cases, cases, cases are up.  Well, the reason cases are up, because were doing  one of the reasons  were doing a lot of testing.     Were doing much more testing than anyone else.  Close to 65 million tests, where other countries have done very little testing.  Theyll test people if they get sick.  Theyll test people if they go into the hospital.  Theyll test certain people.  Were doing tremendous testing.  And were especially doing big testing at the nursing homes.     Over the last week, the testing turnaround times have declined significantly as our major commercial labs have begun pooling samples.  And weve also been able to send out many more of the tests, which are the 5minute to 15minuteresult tests.  Testing samples from multiple patients in one batch is also something that were very focused on and doing.  But in the nottoodistant future, well have so many tests where its a quick test  they call it a quick test  5 minutes to 15 minutes.  So we wont even have to worry too much about the process of sending and receiving.  Because if you figure it takes a day to send and a day to receive and, lets say, a day at the laboratory  thats three days right there.  And the other tests, you can have them in 5 to 15 minutes.    Over the next two weeks, Ill be pursuing a major executive order requiring health insurance companies to cover all preexisting conditions for all customers.  Thats a big thing.  Ive always been very strongly in favor  we have to cover preexisting conditions.  So we will be pursuing a major executive order, requiring health insurance companies to cover all preexisting conditions for all of its customers.     This has never been done before, but its time the people of our country are properly represented and properly taken care of.     This follows a series of executive orders to lower drug prices and lower prescription drug prices  and significantly.  We had the only year, which was last year, where drug prices went down in 51 years.  But were talking about going down at a level that nobody has even thought possible now, even though the drug companies are running very big ads on me, but thats usually a reason  theyre not happy.  They cant be too thrilled.  But theyve made a lot of money over the years, and prices just go up.  Not fair.     This includes a landmark executive order requiring drug companies to change Americans  and charge Americans no more than they charge to foreign countries.  So they have to charge Americans no more than they charge to foreign countries.  That means our country cant be charged more.     So if Germany gets drugs at a very small or low price, and were paying many times that price in the United States  because we pay for all of the research, the development, the promotion, and other things  we will get whats called a favorednations clause.  Were going to have  and I signed a favorednations clause so that the United States  which is the numberone purchaser of drugs by far in the world  biggest purchaser in the world, not even close.  You have other countries that are bigger, if you look at India, China, et cetera.  Not too many.  But we have countries that are bigger, but not even close, in terms of ordering drugs.  Were the numberone country in the world.     But we have a favorednation  so if somebody has a  a drug  in many cases, it comes from a plant  the same plant.  It comes from  its the same pill its the same medicine or medication.  Whatever the lowest country charges  so if Germany charges 10 cents for a pill, and we charge 2  and I only use Germany as an example  then we get that  we get that for 10 cents.  So whats going to happen is thats going to go up a little bit, and ours is going to come down a whole lot.  So its the favored nations.    And I will tell you that big pharma is not happy.  For too long, weve been forced to subsidize cheaper drug prices in foreign countries.  Weve subsidized them to a level that nobody can believe.  Nobody talked about it.  Everybody wondered, How come every President that runs for office says theyre going to lower drug prices, and they never do?  They go through the right  roof.  Over the last administration they went up, like, skyrocketing  skyrocketing.  Thats Biden.  Biden is not going to be able to be able to do it.  He has no clue.     So whats happening is We are going to be working to get rid of all the subsidy to foreign lands.  And were going to give, essentially, all of the benefit that, frankly, they have as great negotiators  those benefits are going to go to our people.  So its called a favorednations clause, and you can look it up, and you can see.  And nobody has had the courage to institute it, to call it because its a very big  its a very big step.  But its something that is going to drive drug prices down 50, 60, maybe even 70 percent.  Were talking about numbers that are unbelievable.     I also signed an executive order stopping middlemen from taking advantage of Medicare patients by charging higher prices to them and pocketing the discounts for themselves.  These are some of the richest people in the world.  Everyone talked about middlemen.  Ive heard about them for years, on prescription drug prices  middlemen.  I guess youd have to say to be politically correct, middlemen and women.  But you never heard the middlewomen before you heard middlemen.  Thats the term.     And, you know, say what you want about the drug companies, but at least the drug companies produce a product.  They produce the pill.  They produce the medicine  the medication.  But these people make billions and billions of dollars.  I dont know who they are, but theyre very rich.  But they wont be so rich anymore.     This executive order requires these 30 billion in discounts to go straight to the American patients.  So the middleman is going to be knocked out, and Im going to lose a lot of friends, even though I have no idea who these people are.     AUDIENCE  Laughter.     THE PRESIDENT  On opioids, Im pleased to announce that my administration invested an additional 100 million to fight the opioid crisis in rural America.  In the midst of the China virus pandemic, we also keep fighting to end the opioid epidemic.  And weve done very well.  Weve done  it was prior to the virus  we were down 18, 19, and 20 percent.  But when you think about it, that means that you have 80 percent, and thats not acceptable.     The wall is going up.  We have 276 miles of wall.  Its having a tremendous impact on drugs coming into our country already.  Itll be finished toward the end of the year.  And its had a very, very big impact.    On Portland Finally, Id like to address that situation.  Portland is a disaster.  Its been a disaster for many, many years.  Brave federal law enforcement officers singlehandedly  the officers, they singlehandedly saved the federal courthouse in Portland from lawless rioters and agitators and anarchists  and thats what they are.  You know, when you find Molotov cocktails in somebodys knapsack, and they say, No, Im just here to have a good time.  Laughter.  These are really sick, disturbed people.    The disgraced mayor of the city has ordered the police to stand down in the face of rioters, leaving his citizens at the mercy of this mob.  He was at the mercy of the mob, too.  If you saw him go out there the other day, it was terrible.  He went out there and they wanted to rip him apart.  But, fortunately, he had five people with him called security.    Mayor Wheeler has abdicated his duty and surrendered his city to the mob.  As a result, the mob descended upon a police precinct and tried to burn it down, tear it down, rip it down  an act of attempted murder.  Leftwing, violent extremism poses an increasing threat to our country, and we stop it.  You have no idea how much we stop, but its an ideology we have to stop.    When you commit arson  this is a quote from the mayor hes come a long way.  He just made this quote.  When you commit arson with an accelerant in the attempt to burn down a building that is occupied by people whohave intentionally been trapped inside, you are not a demonstrator  or youre not demonstrating, said, Mayor 2722, You are attempting to commit murder.  Thats come a long way hes come a long way when he made that statement.     What youre seeing in Portland is the radical lefts agenda in action.  Portland is their roadmap for America.  If the radical left gets in  and they treat Joe Biden as a puppet hes merely a puppet.  But if the radical left gets in, they look at Portland as a thing that they want.  Thats what they want.  Why?  Who knows?  Doesnt matter.  Its a different thinking, but its a mess.     And I want to thank Homeland Security.  Theyve done a fantastic job.  We had our people go in.  They stopped any intrusion into the courthouse, and the courthouse was saved, and other federal buildings were saved.  And we would like to be asked by the mayor and the governor  we will go in and stop the problems in Portland in 24 hours, just like we did in Minneapolis after they really hurt that city.  But the National Guard went in, did a phenomenal job.     It was over in three hours.  After watching six days of horror, it ended in three hours.  You all saw the scene of them walking right down the street, just to  it was actually an unfortunate view, but an incredible view of how to do things.     So we would be able to solve the Portland situation immediately, but we are supposed to be asked.  If were not asked and if it continues, well have to make a decision.  But its a very easy thing for us to do.  We could stop it very quickly.  Its been going on now for 76 days.  But our buildings are very secure.    If the Democrats controlled in Washington  the Democrats control of Washington  theyd pass  with all of the things they do  legislation gutting every single police department in America.  They truly do many of these people want to defund the police department.  At a minimum, theyre to stop money from going to the police department, but in many cases they actually wanted to defund, completely, the police department.    No city, no town, and no suburb would be safe.  Your suburbs would be a disaster.  Your cities, your towns would be a disaster.  They want every city to be a Portland or to be a Chicago, which is totally out of control, and were waiting for the mayor.  Weve sent people in to help them from an intelligence standpoint, but were waiting for them to call  the governor, the mayor.  We could do a very good job in Chicago.  Nobodys ever seen anything like that  this country.     And yet, nationwide numbers are good, despite the Chicagos and the Portlands  and, frankly, the New Yorks, when you look at whats happened in New York.  Three hundred and fortyeight percent increase in the last number of months.  Nobody has seen anything like that.  Its so sad.  To me, its so sad because I love New York.  And its so sad.  And it  all it is, is horrible, horrible incompetent management by politicians that truly dont know what theyre doing.    So just like we saved the courthouse, we will save the United States of America.  And a vast majority of people agree with me.  A vast majority.  Most people.  They dont speak up as much as they could, but we know theyre there, and everybody else knows theyre there, too.     So, with that, Ill take a few questions from the media.  Theyve been here for a long time, and theyve been waiting outside for a long time.  And they wait for these moments.  So it was a lot of fun.  Laughter.    Please, go ahead.