James S. Brady Press Briefing Room607 P.M. EDT     THE PRESIDENT  Hello, everybody.  Thank you very much.  Let me begin by sending Americas deepest sympathies to the people of Lebanon, where reports indicate that many, many people were killed, hundreds more were very badly wounded in a large explosion in Beirut.  Our prayers go out to all the victims and their families.  The United States stands ready to assist Lebanon.  I have a very good relationship with the people of Lebanon, and we will be there to help.  It looks like a terrible attack.     I also want to provide the latest on Tropical Storm Isaias.  Approximately 600,000 are without power along the East Coast, and utility companies are working around the clock to restore service as quickly as possible.  I spoke to Governor Cooper, I spoke to Governor DeSantis, and I spoke to all of the people at FEMA, and theyre working very hard.     Coastal areas in the storms path can expect to see the storm surge and rip currents, while inland areas could see flooding and very, very high winds.  FEMA is responding to states that have requested the assistance.  We have a list of those states we can give them to you in a little while.  And my administration is monitoring the situation very closely.     We have the military on guard, but we have  FEMA is there, in all cases.  The Corps of Engineers is ready if needed  the Army Corps of Engineers.  Very talented people.  I urge everyone in the storms path to remain alert and to follow the guidance of your state and local authorities.     I now want to update you on the path forward, having to do with the China virus.  Before I do that, I want to give you some numbers, which are rather spectacular, that just came out.  The manufacturing index of the Institute for Supply Management  thats ISM most of you know it by ISM  increased for the third month in a row, rising nearly 2 points in July to 54.2  thats fantastic  the highest reading since March of 2019.      This is remarkable, considering the survey was conducted throughout July and showed significant improvement despite the Southwest, in particular, virus hotspots.  The ISM measures  and its a very strong measure of new orders.  It rose 5 points in July, to 61.5, in its highest rating, that would be, since September of 2018.  Thats a big number.      Since the April low, new orders are up over 34 points, which is the largest increase in the history of the ISM, dating back all the way to 1948.  So, 34 points  thats the largest since 1948.      Similarly, the ISMs measure of production is up 35 points from its April low to a reading of 62.1, which is the largest 3month gain in over 70 years.  Thats some  some number.These were somewhat surprising, but Ive been saying were doing well, and those numbers are really spectacular.      Automobile sales, likewise, are a key factor in the resurgence of manufacturing since the March low of 8.8 million units with sales and all of the numbers that are going up, stunningly.  Its a 65 percent increase since then, to 14.5 million units, which is a  a massive number.      The great strength and great news is really for states like  in particular, Michigan and Ohio South Carolina Pennsylvania, very good Florida, little bit.  These are great numbers.  Recordsetting numbers.      The strength in new car sales is also evident in the used car market, where soaring demand  literally, soaring demand  is putting upward pressure on the used car prices.  This is a leading indicator of the motor vehicle industry.  The need to restock depleted shelves will further galvanize the factory sector  and, we think, very substantially, based on the numbers.  Were very, very happy with these numbers.  And I think most people are anywhere from surprised to shocked by these numbers, in a very positive way.     Economywide inventories crashed at a near 320 billion annualized rate last quarter.  A crash, in that case, means a good thing, not a bad thing.  Thats the largest drop ever on record  ever.      Homebuilder sentiment, likewise, is soaring, as our home sales sentiment is now higher than last year.  And new homes recently made a 13year high.  So we have a 13year high in new home  new home construction.      New business applications are very strong.  That just came out.  The widely followed Atlanta Fed GDP  and its something that they have just come out with  now forecasts the new data point and incorporates it into quarterly estimates.  It looks like its showing a 20 percent annualized growth in the current quarter.  So 20 percent in the current quarter well take that all day long.  I  lets see if thats right.  Thats a projection.  So well see if thats right.  The Atlanta Fed  very respected.      The virus  back to that  we are continuing to monitor and monitor, in particular, hotspots across the South, Southwest, and the West.  And were seeing indications that our strong mitigation efforts are working very well, actually, especially to protect those who are most at risk, which has really been our primary focus for  ever since weve gotten to understand this horrible, horrible plague thats been unleashed on our country by China.     As of yesterday, cases are declining in 70 percent of the jurisdictions, compared to 36 percent last Monday.  Thats a big, big number.  Eleven out of thirteen states with the positive rate above 10 percent have seen a decline in daily cases since midJuly.  In other states, the data suggests that the need for continuing vigilance always is strong, even though the numbers are getting very good  states that have a test positivity rate between 5 and 10 percent.  And in the states with the lowest positivity rates, we also see slight increases in daily cases in a couple of them.      We must ensure that these states do not become new flareups, so were watching them very, very closely.  Fortunately, thanks to substantial improvements in treatment and the knowledge we have gained about the disease itself, the recent rise in cases has not been accompanied by a significant increase in deaths.     Fatalities nationwide are at roughly half the level of the April peak.  So the death  the number of deaths or fatalities are at half the level.  One is too much  one death  because this should have never happened to us.  It should have been stopped at  very easily, by China, in Wuhan.       Thanks to our major advances in treatment, weve seen vast improvements in recovery rates across all age groups.  Compared to April, mortality rates are 85 percent lower among individuals aged 18 to 69, and 70 percent lower among individuals over 70 years old.     Weve also made significant strides in sheltering those at highest risk, especially the elderly.  Approximately 85 percent of all current cases are individuals under the age of 65  just getting some very accurate numbers on this.  And these are people who are generally at a much lower risk of complications.     Since the pandemic began, nearly half of all fatalities have been at nursing homes or assistedliving centers.  Thats an incredible statistic, when you hear that number.  This data, underscores that the best path forward is an aggressive strategy focused on protecting Americans at highest risk.     As we race toward the development of a vaccine, we must continue to take extraordinary precautions to shield the elderly, and were doing that.  Were doing that at a level that weve never even dreamt possible, both with testing and with common sense.  And those with underlining sic conditions, especially the elderly with the underlining sic  whether its heart or diabetes  they seem to be the two most predominant conditions that cause tremendous problems.  While allowing those at lowest risk to carefully return to work and to school.     Where embers flare up, we must engage immediately, and thats what were doing.  This is the sciencebased approach, and its good with us.  Working very hard on that.  An extended lockdown would fail to target resources at the highestrisk populations, while inflicting massive economic pain, longlasting damage on society and public health as a whole.      So there wont be lockdowns, but we watch specific areas.  Were very careful and were putting out embers.  Were putting out flames.  When you look at whats happening with Miami, and its going  the numbers are going down.  But Florida is going down very significantly.  Texas and California are going down rather significantly.     On telemedicine, as we discussed the last time, as  and as I said numerous times during this day, its an incredible thing thats happening.  A central part of our effort to protect the elderly is to greatly expand access to telehealth, so seniors can be treated from the safety of their homes.  And thats whats happening.  The number of Medicare beneficiaries using telehealth increased from roughly 14,000 a week to nearly 1.7 million  so from 14,000 to 1.7 million per week.  In total, 10 million Medicare beneficiaries have accessed telehealth services since the pandemic began.  Thats a tremendous thing thats happened with telehealth.     As we shelter those at high risk, we are also pouring every resource at our disposal into the development of therapies and vaccines.  Two vaccine candidates are currently in the final stage of clinical trials, with several more vaccine candidates entering phase three in the coming weeks.  And youve read and seen whats happened today.  Todays news was very exciting.      Through Operation Warp Speed, were also mass producing all of the most promising vaccine candidates, and were determined to have a vaccine very quickly.  We think were going to have something very soon.      We have great companies.  These are the  among the greatest companies in the world.  But right now, they dont like me so much because Im forcing them to drop drug prices  prescription drug prices  very massively.  Some of these companies are involved in that some of them arent.  Were having a tremendous  youll see a tremendous drop in price.  Were using favored nations  were using the rebates.  Were using everything.      For so long, Ive heard about how wealthy the middlemen are.  They call them the middlemen.  And they are very wealthy.  Nobody even knows who they are, but theyre very wealthy people.      And were doing the rebates.  Were doing purchases from other countries  like Canada, which buys drugs for much less money than the United States is allowed to, under a very bad system.  I dont call it archaic I call it bad because its meant, really, for drug companies to get higher prices.     But under  under the system of matching that we have, if Germany has a pill for 10 cents and ours is 2, were allowed to say we want favored nations, and we want the pill for the same  the same as the lowest country in the world.  If they sell to one country lower than anybody else, thats the price were going to get.  Drug companies arent too happy about that  big pharma.     Weve also dramatically accelerated the availability of plasma therapies, steroid treatments, antivirals, and other therapies to treat the illness.  Today, the NIH  were  very exciting  announced that theyre beginning the trial of two new antibody treatments, which will take place in 40 cities across the country.  Were going to move  move very quickly.  Results look very good already.  Incredible results.      More than 230 clinical trials for potential treatments are underway, and weve secured 500,000 courses of treatment for remdesivir  of remdesivir.  Were really doing a job with it, and its helping a lot of people.  Thats why you see the fatalities and mortality numbers looking very good  relatively speaking, that is.  But thats for American hospitals through the month of September.  So we have remdesivir at a very high level for hospitals through the month of September.  Thats big news.     The United States also has far and away the most robust testing capacity in the world.  Testing has been incredible, what weve been able to do.  Nobody is even close.  Since March 12th, weve increased daily testing by 32,000 percent.  Hows that?  Thirtytwo thousand percent.  Somebody would say, That must be a typo.  Its not a typo.  Thirtytwo thousand percent.      We now have conducted over 61 million tests nationwide, averaging over 820,000 tests per day and nearly 5 million tests per week.  And now that were understanding the virus, were understanding very much what were doing with respect to who it affects, who its destroying, and who gets away with it  like young people, very young people.  Well be having some interesting statements having to do a testing and focus testing.  I call it focus testing.     By comparison, Mexico  so were doing numbers that are incredible.  But by comparison, Mexico  as you know, the President was here hes a great guy  but their  their numbers are much different.  They do about 1 million tests.  France has done 2.9 million tests.  Canada is around the 4 million mark.  Australia is around the 4 million mark.  The United States is testing more people in a single week than, in many cases, large segments or large, wellknown countries all put together.  Its been an amazing achievement the testing and the quality of the testing also.  And now were doing testing where you can have results in 5 minutes, in 7 minutes, and 15 minutes, as opposed to waiting to come back from labs  for it to come back from labs.     Over the last several weeks, HHS has opened surging testing sites in Baton Rouge New Orleans Phoenix Miami Jacksonville, Florida McAllen, Texas Bakersfield, California.  And this week, were opening new surge sites in Houston, Texas Atlanta.  To date, more than 130,000 tests have been conducted at these sites.      Last week, the FDA also authorized the first two tests that display an estimated quantity of antibodies present in the individuals blood, which is a big deal, allowing us to learn more about the immune response.      FEMA and HHS has worked with the private sector to deliver more than  we have new numbers  more than 200 million N95 masks, 855 million surgical masks, 36 million goggles and face shields, 364 million gowns and coveralls, and 21 billion gloves  billion.  Can you believe that?  Billion gloves.     And we distribute that to the governors, different states.  And when we get on the phone with them, theyre very happy, that I can tell you.  No  no complaints from any of them.  Theyre very, very happy.  What they say to you separately maybe will change for political reasons, but they are very happy with the job weve done.     In our National Stockpile, weve tripled the number of N95 masks on hand to more than 40 million tripled the number of gowns to 15 million and quadrupled the number of ventilators to nearly 70,000.  These numbers are growing every day, and were now making thousands of ventilators  many thousands of ventilators a month.  And were getting them to other countries who are desperately in need of ventilators.  Theyre very hard to produce.  Theyre very complicated machines.  So were  were fully stocked here, and weve made sure that every state is fully stocked, but were getting them to a lot of countries that need help.     Well continue to work with the governors and local authorities to help them ensure significant hospital capacity, protective equipment, supplies, and medicine.  Im more confident than ever that we will get a vaccine very soon and we will defeat the virus.      And I want to thank you all for being here.  Well take a few questions.     Yeah, please.