James S.  Brady Press Briefing Room104 P.M.  EDT     MS. MCENANY  Hello.  Sorry to keep you all waiting.  Before I begin, it is day 42 of the botched New York City primary, where still there is no election results in one congressional race.  This, as the New York Times notes, is due to, quote, the deluge of 400,000 mailin ballots, previewing the, quote, challenges facing the nation as it looks towards conducting the November general election with mass mailin voting.      Now Id like to highlight the Trump administrations actions on telehealth, which the President detailed yesterday.  The President signed an executive order to make regulatory reforms, allowing for greater access to telehealth and toward making it permanent.      The Trump administration has cut red tape, allowing telehealth services for seniors and for other Americans.  Thirtyfive percent of Medicare beneficiaries took advantage of the Presidents reform, seeking telehealth services over the phone rather than through video conference.  A simpler and a smarter way to go about things is now available to Medicare beneficiaries.      The President also took executive action to boost rural healthcare services.  According to a 2019 study by Navigant, rural hospitals would be devastated by Medicare for All, otherwise known as government takeover of healthcare.  And under that analysis, they found that if Democrats had their way, 55 percent of rural hospitals or 1,037 hospitals across 46 states would be at high risk of closure.      The Presidents executive order calls for strategic investments in our rural communications infrastructure, which will expand telemedicine and rural broadband access.  Democrats seek to deny Americans their healthcare freedom, but President Trump is working hard to save your healthcare by guaranteeing protections for people with preexisting conditions, eliminating the highly unpopular individual mandate of Obamacare, stopping surprise medical billing, increasing transparency, and lowering drug prices.      President Trump will continue to work hard to enact these healthcare principles by requiring price transparency allowing states to purchase drugs from other countries and improving Medicare to lower drug prices and reduce out of pocket costs for seniors and by ending surprise medical billing, and making companies compete for your business by providing more options and more affordable plans.      Lastly, later today, Advisor to the President, Ivanka  Senior Advisor to the President, Ivanka Trump, will be joined by Attorney General Barr Director of the Domestic Policy Council, Brooke Rollins executives from organizations that combat human trafficking and survivors from across the country for a roundtable to highlight newly awarded Department of Justice grants to provide safe, stable housing to survivors of human trafficking.     DOJ will award over 35 million in Housing Assistance Grants for victims of human trafficking to provide supportive housing and appropriate services to survivors of human trafficking.      And with that, Ill take questions.  Yes.