James S. Brady Press Briefing Room1054 A.M. EDTMS. MCENANY Good morning, everyone. Were going to begin with some brief remarks from Chief of Staff Mark Meadows, and hell be giving you all an update on phase four negotiations.MR. MEADOWS Good morning. As you know, over the last several days, weve been having conversations on Capitol Hill, Secretary Mnuchin and myself, with Democrat and Republican leaders, both in the House and the Senate.Last night, we concluded a meeting with Senator Schumer and Speaker Pelosi a little bit before 10 oclock, and at the Presidents direction, we have made no less than four different offers to Democrats on Capitol Hill on how we can make sure that the enhanced unemployment that is set to expire today, along with eviction protection that is set to expire as well, is protected. And those four different offers have been actually rejected, but more importantly than that, theyve not even been countered with a proposal.So the Democrats are certainly willing, today, to allow some of the American citizens who are struggling the most under this pandemic to go unprotected. And the President has been very clear for us to be aggressive and forward leaning to make sure that they get protected. And yet, what were seeing is politics as usual from Democrats up on Capitol Hill.It surprises me that when we talk about compassion and caring about those that  that truly are in need, that a temporary solution to make sure that unemployment  enhanced unemployment continues has been rejected not once but multiple times.The Democrats believe that they have all the cards on their side, and theyre willing to play those cards at the expense of those that are hurting. And well continue on with additional discussions today with Senator Schumer and Senator  and Speaker Pelosi, perhaps an inperson meeting tomorrow on Capitol Hill, as we  we stay engaged.But Im  Im disappointed. And what weve  what weve experienced over the last three days  and I want to stress that the Democrats have made zero offers over the last three days. Zero. And so, in a spirit of compromise, the President has sent us back not once, not twice, but three different times to try to find some common ground. And what we found from our Democrat negotiators is that they are bumping the price higher than the very bill that they passed out of the House several weeks ago.And to give you a particular example of that is In their HEROES bill, they have 100 billion for schools. We matched that offer and actually put forth a proposal for 105 billion for schools for Kthrough12 and higher institutions. And yet, what did they say to that? Oh, no, that was two months ago. We want to increase the amount of money that we send to schools to 400 billion. Were going in the wrong direction. Theyre going in the wrong direction because of partisan politics. It is very disappointing.And so we call on Capitol Hill to get serious about their negotiations. The President is serious about the negotiations. Were willing to engage.As you know, Leader McConnell, yesterday, put forth a oneweek extension at the current level for enhanced unemployment. And what did we see? Senator Schumer objected to that. So theres no clear message that the American people should receive, other than the fact that the Democrats are willing to pay  play politics at a critical time in our nations very dire circumstances as we deal with this pandemic.So I wanted to give you that brief update so that you can have it straight from the negotiations, as theyve happened over the last three days, and as we work.Im going to  Im going to turn it over to  to the Press Secretary. And I think shes prepared to answer all the questions.