James S. Brady Press Briefing Room520 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Today my administration has taken a momentous step toward achieving American pharmaceutical independence  a very, very big, big step  a focus of our campaign to bring Americas critical supply chains and medical manufacturing back to the USA. Weve been working on this for a long time.This is a core of our strategy to protect our people from the horrible China virus. It should have never happened. It should have never been here. They should have stopped it.In the decades before I took office, foreign nations were allowed to freely plunder our factories and loot our industries, take our business out of the United States. Millions of jobs were vacuumed out  just taken out so easily. Our politicians let that happen. And our communities were stripped and shipped, in many cases, to China and all over the world  countries all over the world.Nearly four years ago, we launched a bold effort to revitalize American manufacturing, enact fair trade deals, and bring our industries back home where they belong. When the China virus landed on our shores, it became clearer than ever before that restoring American manufacturing is a core matter of national security. We must never be reliant on a foreign nation for Americas medical or other needs, and that includes many other needs.I just want to say that Pfizer just announced, a little while ago, that theyre combining phase two and phase three trials, and the vaccine looks like its really heading in a very rapid direction, in a very positive direction. First time thats happened. And theyre many months ahead of any other trial. Theres never been anything like it. So its the fastest ever, and to me, its very exciting.Today, Im proud to announce one of the most important deals in the history of U.S. pharmaceutical industries. My administration has reached a historic agreement with a great American company  you remember this company its called  from the good, old camera age, the old days  to begin producing critical pharmaceutical ingredients. Its called Kodak. And its going to be right here in America.So I want to congratulate the people in Kodak. Theyve been working very hard. Members of my administration are present in Rochester right now  Rochester, New York  a good place. And theyre trying to finalize this groundbreaking deal, and they will be announcing this deal.I want to thank Governor Andrew Cuomo and his representatives. Weve worked really well together on this deal. Its a big deal. Its going to be a great deal and a great deal for New York and a great deal for Kodak.Ninety percent of all prescriptions written in the United States are for generic drugs. We have approved more generic drugs than any other administration, by far. Generic drugs can be just as good as the brand names, but cost much less.Yet, in less than 10 percent of the active pharmaceutical ingredients needed to make these drugs  theyre currently manufactured in America  more than 50 percent, however, are made in India and China. And youll be seeing  a lot of things have happened. Its been happening, but its happening at a more rapid pace right now.With this new agreement, my administration is using the Defense Production Act to provide a 765 million loan to support the launch of Kodak Pharmaceuticals. Its a great name, when you think of it. Such a great name. It was one of the great brands in the world. Then people went digital, and Kodak didnt follow. But now, under very extraordinary leadership, they are following and theyre doing something thats a different field, and its a field that theyve really hired some of the best people in the world to be taking care of that company and watching that company  watching over it. But its a breakthrough in bringing pharmaceutical manufacturing back to the United States.Under this contract, our 33rd use of the Defense Production Act  remember when you were saying I didnt use it enough, I didnt use it enough? And now you heard its the 33rd use. We dont talk about it all the time we used it, and we used it as a little bit of a threat, frankly, with certain companies that werent doing as we were asking them to do, and it came through as both a threat and a usage. But this is our 33rd use of the Defense Production Act.Kodak will now produce generic active pharmaceutical ingredients, which is a big deal. Using advanced manufacturing techniques, Kodak will also make the key starting materials that are the building blocks for many drugs in a manner that is both costcompetitive and environmentally safe. Well be competitive with almost all countries, and soon with all countries.Once this new division is fully operational, in addition to all of the other plants that weve opened with other companies throughout the United States recently, it will produce as much as 25 percent of all active ingredients needed to make generic drugs in the USA. Thats a big number 25 percent.This agreement will directly create 360 new jobs at Kodaks factory in Rochester thats just in the initial phase. And in Minneapolis, a place I have gotten to know very well and its a great place  and Im very happy that were able to help them with the problems that theyve had recently. And the National Guard  I want to thank the National Guard, both state and beyond. I want to thank them for the incredible job. They went in and they did some beautiful job. They cleaned it up. You didnt hear about the problems anymore.And indirectly, I want to create  we created thousands more jobs all across our pharmaceutical supply chains. We have now been building a very big pharmaceutical supply chain  not only coming out of China, coming out of other countries also. I want to thank Peter Navarro, Adam Boehler, and Admiral Polowczyk for their tremendous work to make this deal possible.Todays action is our latest step to build the greatest medical arsenal in history. Well be able to do that.Through the Defense Production Act and other authorities, we have invested more than 3 billion in our nations industrial base. Weve contracted with companies such as Ford, General Motors, Philips, and General Electric to produce more than 200,000 ventilators by the end of this year  nearly seven times more than we would ever do in a typical year.Weve contracted with Honeywell, 3M, OM, Halyard, Moldex, and Lidl to increase U.S. production of N95 masks. And weve brought it from less than 40 million a month to over 100 million a month by August, and well have 160 million in a very short while  160 million a month. Thats many times what we used to do. If you go back two years ago, its many, many times.Were increasing domestic production of gloves by 1,000 percent. Its 1,000 percent. We will be manufacturing 450 million gloves annually by next year.Were finalizing contracts with our textile industry to make gowns in America with American fabric, which makes a lot of our businesses happy that produce the fabric. We have 13 million reusable gowns in the Stockpile, and well continue to grow that number to 72 million this fall, which is a rapid escalation indeed.We made major investments in new rapid pointofcare tests. So we have  theres nothing like the rapid point, where you get your answer in 5 minutes to 15 minutes to maybe 20, 25 minutes at the max. And were already at about a 50 percent level, and were bringing it up very substantially from there.Were growing domestic production from less than 250,000 test kits per month in May to 8 million test kits per month. There is nothing like this that has ever taken place anywhere in the world or close.Through our partnership with Puritan Manufacturing and the state of Maine  a great state  weve increased production of test swabs from 30 million per month in June to 56 million per month now. As you remember, I went to Maine I went to the plant where they do this. It was incredible. It was a great experience. And well produce over 100 million swabs per month by January.Weve dramatically ramped up production of materials needed for a vaccine and are on track to rapidly produce 100 million doses as soon as a vaccine is approved, which could be very, very soon, and 500 million doses shortly thereafter. So well have 500 million doses. And, logistically, were using our military, our great military  a group of people their whole life is based around logistics and bringing things to and from locations  and theyll be able to take care of this locationally and bringing it where it has to go very, very quickly. Theyre all mobilized. Its been fully set up.A very, very talented general is in charge. And when we have that vaccine, it will be discharged and taken care of. Itll be a very  a very rapid process all over the country. And perhaps well be supplying a lot of the vaccine to other parts of the world, like we do with ventilators and other things that we, all of a sudden, have become very good at making.When the China virus struck our nation, we mobilized the entire government and the private sector to acquire, source, and deliver lifesaving supplies. HHS, FEMA, and the private sector combined have coordinated the delivery of more than 196 million N95 respirators, 815 million surgical masks, 20 million gloves, 34 million face shields, and 354 million gowns. Thats a lot of gowns.Last week, FEMA completed a second shipment of personal protective equipment to over 15,000 nursing homes in the United States. Our big focus has been on nursing homes and senior citizens. As you know, thats where we want to take care  we have to take care of the most vulnerable, especially if they have a medical difficulty, a medical problem  in particular, heart or diabetes. Which provided a total of 1.2 million pairs of protective eyewear, 14 million mask  masks, 66 million pairs of gloves, and 13 million gowns.We have replenished the longneglected National Stockpile. In January, the Stockpile had 17.9 million N95 masks. Today, the stockpile has over 50 million N95 masks, and well be doubling that in a very short period of time and then doubling that number.Weve shipped more than 14,000 ventilators to areas of need across the country, and we have more than 75,000 available to deploy. Not a single American who has needed a ventilator has been denied a ventilator. And if you remember, early on when we were first hit with the virus, ventilators were very hard to come by, and now were the largest maker anywhere in the world, by far. And not only are we fully supplied and stocked, but were helping other nations, because ventilators are hard to build and hard to get.This is just the beginning. In the coming months, we will continue the largest onshoring campaign in American history. We will bring back our jobs, and we will make America the worlds premier medical manufacturer and supplier. Thats whats happening already. Its been happening now for quite some time.Were seeing improvements across the major metro areas and most hotspots. You can look at large portions of our country its  its coronafree. But we are watching very carefully California, Arizona, Texas, and most of Florida. Its starting to head down in the right direction, and I think youll see it rapidly head down very soon. But if you look, California, Arizona, Texas, and, for the most part, most of Florida, its starting to head down.In the wake of the recent mass gatherings Americans have witnessed in the streets of Portland and Seattle, we are also tracking a significant rise in cases in both metropolitan areas because of whats been going on.And we, as you know, have done a excellent job of watching over Portland and watching our courthouse where they wanted to burn it down. Theyre anarchists. Nothing short of anarchists, agitators. And we have protected it very powerfully. And if we didnt go there, I will tell you, you wouldnt have a courthouse. Youd have a  youd have a billiondollar burnedout building.Were also working aggressively to combat the virus and Native American and Alaska Native communities. Under the CARES Act, we provided 8 billion to address the coronavirus in tribal communities, and weve worked very hard with tribal communities. Theyre very vulnerable to this horrible plague. Its the largest investment in Indian Country in U.S. history. Theres never been an investment that big in Indian Country.We need every American to help protect our fellow citizens and prevent the spread of the disease. Its critical that younger Americans remember that even though they are at lower risk  and, in fact, some are in  some age groups are at an extraordinary low risk themselves  they can unknowingly spread the virus to others who are at higher risk.I ask all Americans, regardless of background or age, to practice social distancing  which people have gotten very used to, but we have to keep doing it remain vigilant about hygiene avoid indoor gatherings and large gatherings, but especially indoor, especially where you have crowded bars and that you wear a mask whenever appropriate.Through the genius of our scientists, the devotion of our doctors, the skill of our workers, and the dedication of our people, we will achieve victory over the virus and emerge stronger than ever before.Were looking at a very powerful year next year, economically. The job numbers are looking outstanding, to put it mildly set records. The numbers on retail  retail sales  came in two weeks ago at the highest number in the history of our country. So we look like were heading to some very, very good economic times that means jobs, that means stock market.The stock market is already doing very well. Its getting to a point very close to where it was when we had this  when we were hit with the  the plague. So I just want to thank everybody for being here.Steve, please. Go ahead.