Fujifilm Diosynth BiotechnologiesMorrisville, North Carolina333 P.M.EDTTHE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Great to be in this wonderful state. So many friends, so much success, and we love being here. And were here, actually, today to discuss the exciting progress that weve achieved under the Operation Warp Speed  our historic initiative to develop, test, manufacture, and deliver a vaccine in record time. And thats what it is, in record time. Likewise, therapeutically, we are very, very advanced. Youre hearing about it and youll be hearing about it a lot more in the next two weeks. We will achieve a victory over the virus by unleashing Americas scientific genius, which is what it is.Im therefore proud to announce that this morning, the Moderna vaccine has officially entered phase three already. And thats phase three clinical trials the final stage before approval. Theres never been anything like this, in terms of speed  nothing even close. A second vaccine is likely to enter phase three in a matter of days. Under Operation Warp Speed, weve shaved years off of the time that it takes to develop a vaccine  in some cases, many years  and weve done it while maintaining the FDA gold standard for safety. This is the fastest a vaccine for a novel pathogen has ever gone. It has never gone like this. And if you look at where we are, by phase three, we could say ever gone by far.Four additional promising candidates are expected to enter final trials in the coming weeks, including the Novavax vaccine being developed right here at this facility. Its an incredible facility. Were going to be making a tour in a little while  a very, very complete tour  with the folks that run it and the people that operate.Weve just completed a tour of Fujifilms innovation laboratories  and thats going to be done at a much, much higher level in a few minutes after Im finished, and I believe well take a few questions too  which were carrying out a crucial biomanufacturing process needed to make the Novavax vaccine. This production is made possible by my administrations 1.6 billion award to Novavax as part of Operation Warp Speed. It lets us deliver the final product in a time that never has been achieved anywhere, at any time, for anything like this.These same manufacturing processes are being conducted on an even larger scale in College Station, Texas. Today, Im proud to announce that HHS has just signed a 265 million contract with the FujifilmTexas AM Innovation Center, which is quite the place, to dramatically expand their vaccine manufacturing capacity. I want to thank Fujifilm CEO Martin Meeson for welcoming us today. And Martin  where is, Martin? Thank you. Thank you very much, Martin. Its really wonderful to be with you under these circumstances in particular, with all the progress thats being made. As well as Novavax CEO, Stanley Erck. Stanley, thank you very much. Thank you very much for being here.Thanks also to Secretary Alex Azar, who is with us Senator Thom Tillis, thank you very much. Thank you, Thom. Stand up, Thom. Good job youve done. Thank you very much. You really have. Representatives Richard Hudson, David Rouzer, Mark Walker, Dan Bishop, and Greg Murphey, thank you. All friends. All warriors. Lieutenant Governor Dan Forest, who I hear is doing a great job  where is Dan? Stand up, Dan. Great job, Dan. Really good. North Carolina House Speaker Tim Moore  thank you, Tim. Great job. And President pro tem of the North Carolina State Senate, Phil Berger. Thank you, Phil, very much. I appreciate it.Operation Warp Speed is funding a historic portfolio of highly promising vaccine candidates. In addition to our 1.6 billion investment in Novavax, weve issued a 483 million contract with Moderna, a 1.2 billion contract with AstraZeneca, a 465 million contract with Janssen, and just last week, a 1.95 billion agreement with Pfizer. Tremendous progress is being made with all of those great companies.A groundbreaking agreement with Pfizer includes a guarantee to deliver 100 million doses shortly after the vaccines approval  almost immediately  with the option to purchase an additional 500 million thereafter. Not only is Operation Warp Speed accelerating the development of a vaccine, were also directing a colossal industrial mobilization to ensure its rapid delivery. Nothing has happened like this since the end of World War Two.Instead of the usual sequence of vaccine development, testing and trials, followed by production, our strategy is to conduct these phases simultaneously. So everything goes at one time. Were not waiting and waiting and waiting its all going at one time. We have a system that has  I think its unparalleled. Never been done before, but we suspect its going to work, and work very well.Were mass producing all of the most promising vaccine candidates in advance so that on the day one that its approved, itll be available to the American people immediately. And well probably have a lot for a lot of other people throughout the world. The world is suffering from this China virus.Another dimension of Operation Warp Speed is our focus on therapeutics to treat the virus. Over 140 clinical trials are underway, and a number of effective therapies have already been developed and widely delivered, including remdesivir, which is having a tremendous impact  you see that with mortality rates and other things, statistically  dexamethasone, convalescent plasma, and antibody treatments. We have numerous treatments right now that are under study, and I think over the next couple of weeks, we may actually have some very positive answers as to that.On July 7th, we announced a 450 million agreement with Regeneron to begin advanced manufacturing of its antibody treatment, which is currently in latestage clinical trials. Late stage.Due to the medical advances weve already achieved and our increased knowledge in how to treat the virus, the mortality rate for patients over the age of 18 is 85 percent lower than it was in April  think of that 85 percent  and is 25 percent lower than Europe as a whole.In the middle of April, more than 22 percent of all deaths in the United States were attributable to the China virus. As the last week, that number has dropped down  as of last week, its dropped down to under 7 percent.To decrease the turnaround times for testing, the first two laboratories have been approved to provide pooled testing  very important. In other words, samples from multiple patients are processed together. Theyre pooled. Now, pool testing will reduce turnaround times by more than  substantially more than 50 percent.Last week, our Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services began distributing rapid pointofcare diagnostic test instruments to all of the nursing homes in the United States, focusing on the areas of greatest need, which is our elderly and our nursing homes.What weve already sent includes testing instruments to 635 nursing homes for 196,000 rapid pointofcare tests. Its a tremendous amount. Thats  youll get your response and answer from 5 to 15 minutes.Over the next three weeks, 1,700 nursing homes will receive an additional 800,000 pointofcare tests. Think of that. The United States has conducted over 52 million tests. Thats more than all of Europe put together, times two. Nobody is even close. And as countries go, it is  as an example, India is up to 11 million tests. Were going to be very shortly at 55 million tests. India has 1.4 billion people.Through our relentless efforts, weve completely rebuilt our stockpile, which the previous administration depleted and did not refill. The cupboards were bare. I say it often. In total, weve now distributed nearly 100 million N95 masks, 35 million surgical masks, 15 million face shields, and much, much more. In addition to that, ventilators, the most difficult thing of all, we are now building thousands a month, and were distributing them  we have all we need in our country, but to other countries that are in desperate need. Other countries are having a tremendously difficult time with the virus.Last week, FEMA sent additional personal protective equipment to over 15,000 nursing homes, including 643,000 pairs of protective eyewear, 7 million masks, 34 million pairs of gloves, and 6 million gowns. Its a lot.Over the weekend, cases in Florida, Texas, and Arizona held steady and are now heading down. In Arizona, theyre heading very substantially down, and rapidly. Weve been constant  and in constant communication with the states, and are surging them resources when requested. They largely had what they needed, but anything they need, we send them immediately. We are totally full, we have everything we need, we get it to the states immediately, we deal with the governors. The relationship with the governors has been very good.These states are not out of the woods, but rigorous compliance with guidelines should allow them to turn the corner, and very, very quickly. We are working with every governor and health commissioner across the country to bring a complete, individualized analysis to each state, as well as tailored recommendations. States are different.My administration is also closely monitoring the surging caseload in Latin America, which is now the region in the world with the most active reported infections, by far. Due to the relative scarcity of testing in Latin America, however, the regions reported number of cases is also likely to be dramatically undercut or undercounted. And I can say thats probably true throughout the entire world. We report our cases most of the world doesnt. They either dont do testing, therefore they have very few cases, even though people are sick, or they just dont report it.Given the reality of what we just said, were focusing aggressively on the Texas border and countries that we think have to be watched very, very carefully, because you have some very, very highly infected countries outside of our borders.Ive spoken with Governor Abbott  terrific gentleman  and I can report that over 3,300 federal personnel are on the ground in Texas. Weve given them a tremendous amount of extra help, including doctors, nurses, frontline people. Weve supplied Texas with more than 2.5 million gloves, 800,000 goggles, 337,000 surgical gowns, 1.8 million surgical masks, 1.36 million N95 respirators, and half a million KN90 masks.Beginning this week, Texas hospitals will receive 500 cases of remdesivir, which has proven very effective, enough to treat 3,200 patients.In addition to the crossborder spread, this stage of the pandemic is being fueled by younger Americans who generally have little risk of being seriously harmed by the disease but can spread the disease. We need all Americans to be conscious about their actions and to exercise extreme vigilance.I trust all Americans to do the right thing, but we strongly advise everyone to especially, especially focus on maintaining a social distance, maintaining rigorous hygiene, avoid large gatherings and crowded indoor bars, and wear masks when appropriate.We also strongly urge citizens to take extra precautions to shield those at highest risk, which are, in most cases, in many cases, the elderly  especially the elderly with medical problems, such as heart or diabetes. But you want to shield them and you want to guard them and you want to protect them from the virus especially  especially those that are really targeted  almost targeted, you could say, by this horrible, horrible plague, this horrible epidemic, pandemic.America will develop a vaccine very soon, and we will defeat the virus. We will have it delivered in record time. As our visit here demonstrates  and I want to thank all of the people and representatives from the great state of North Carolina. This is a great  this is a great place. Its a phenomenal place. And weve had so many great meetings and such a great time.I want to drive the  the drive and tenacity of your representatives and your politicians has been incredible. When they call them there, when they call  most of them, many of them are sitting here right now  I will always answer their call.So thank you very much. I appreciate you being here with us. And lets get on to a few questions. Tremendous progress has been made, and its been made rapidly and its been made in areas that nothing like that has taken place before.So, please. Thank you very much. Applause. Thank you. Thank you.