University of Miami Miller School of MedicineMiami, Florida224 P.M. EDTDR. FORD Well, good afternoon. Mr. Vice President, Commissioner Hahn, Governor DeSantis, Governor  Congressman DazBalart, other distinguished guests It is truly a distinct honor and pleasure to extend a heartfelt welcome to you, to the University of Miamis Miller School of Medicine.Id like to thank each of you for your continued support, partnership, and tireless effort as we navigate the impact of COVID19 on our community, the university, and our health system.As I mentioned to the Vice President earlier, he could not have picked a better place to mark the start of the phase three COVID19 vaccination trials. The Miller School of Medicine was Floridas very first medical school and is now home to South Floridas first and only NCIdesignated cancer center.And the Gordon Center, where we are today, is one of the crown jewels of the university. It is the home of the first cardiopulmonary simulator for medical education, named Harvey, and that structure has helped train tens of thousands of learners worldwide and continue to do so today.And as an institution whose overarching mission and singular focus is to be at the forefront of advances in clinical care, medical education, and translational medicine to improve the health of our nation, we are pleased to host you, Mr. Vice President, your first visit to a phase three clinical trial site in the nation.It is now my pleasure to introduce our governor and a great friend of the University of Miami, Ron DeSantis.GOVERNOR DESANTIS Well, thank you, Dean. In Florida, we had an interesting situation with our budget. The budget was completed basically right before the 15 Days to Slow the Spread was announced. And so it was done in a financial situation that obviously changed dramatically. We waited until the end of the fiscal year to consider that budget, but the budget vetoes that I had to issue were historic a billion dollars. I likened it to the Red Wedding version of lineitem vetoes.But even though we had to take off so much off the budget, we were able to support the Sylvester Cancer Center here at the University of Miami. And I think that thats a testament to, in one of the toughest years, to be able to be there. Its a testament to the great work thats being done here across the board and with these clinical trials. Its even been more exciting.I want to thank the Vice President. Vice President Pence has been a great friend of the people of Florida. He was down here, I remember, early on when we met at the terminal with the cruise  the cruise ship executives, and hes been down multiple times, always willing to lend a helping hand. And Ill tell you, its been beneficial.Were encouraged by the most recent trends. Yesterday, hospital admissions in the state of Florida for COVIDlike illness was the lowest its been since June. Emergency department visits for COVIDlike illness yesterday was as low as its been since the middle of June.And Floridas case fatality rate is about 1.3 percent. Its one of the lowest case fatality rates in the country amongst large states. And part of the reason is some of the great work that our medical professionals are doing here at the University of Miami Health System. I learned in our roundtable For admitted hospital patients with COVID, their fatality rate is 10 percent of the admitted hospital patients. That is incredibly great results with a very difficult disease. So I really want to thank the folks here whove been doing a great job saving lives and generating good patient outcomes.Part of the reason I think people have also generated better outcomes is some of the therapeutics that have been developed, including this new therapeutic, remdesivir. This was sent out to states a month or two ago when there was a more demand signal. As more patients were coming into Miami hospitals, we needed to accelerate those shipments. I called the Vice President, and I think, like, 48 hours later, it was all arriving at the hospitals across the state.Weve had to change the schedule to accelerate to make sure there was no gaps, and the White House has been there every time. So I want to thank them for what theyve done to be able to help our physicians have the remdesivir that they need to treat their patients.And then, finally, Im really excited that the federal government is sending pointofcare COVID diagnostic tests to nursing homes all across the country. And as many of you know, weve had no visitations in nursing homes since middle of March. It was the right thing to do. Weve done routine daily screening of staffing. Were doing biweekly testing of staff. Weve tested all the residents. You know, weve obviously prohibited hospitals from sending COVIDpositive residents back to nursing homes. Its been a big focus. We sent millions of PPE  masks, face shields, all this other stuff.But we havent been able to figure out, okay, when can they be able to see their loved ones. Its a tough balance. But I think with this pointofcare test, you will be able to potentially have the visitation resume, where the family members can be tested, get an answer in 15 minutes, and then you get to go make that human connection.And all the steps we take, theres always costs on the other side, and weve done a lot to protect our nursing home residents. I think our fatality rate there is testament to that. But that has come at an emotional cost its increased loneliness. And we cant just do that indefinitely. This is a way to maintain the safety and still work to keep the virus out of these very vulnerable areas while still giving people some personal nourishment and having the families connect again.So, Mr. Vice President, thank you for being a part of that. We look forward to those landing in nursing homes throughout the state of Florida. We want to thank you again for all youve done to help us amongst  along these many difficult months, but I do think that theres a light at the end of the tunnel, and a lot of that is due to your support. So, thank you.THE VICE PRESIDENT Thank you. Well, good afternoon. I want to thank Governor Ron DeSantis and his entire team for the seamless partnership that theyve forged with our administration since the early days of this pandemic. Weve worked together to ensure that Florida had the resources to do testing, that your hospital systems and incredible healthcare workers had PPE, ventilators. And weve also been  weve also been working to make those therapeutics, like remdesivir, available in increasing measure.But today is a historic day, because today, here at the University of Miami, we will begin the first phase three clinical trial for a coronavirus vaccine in the United States.Eightynine sites all across America, with more than 30,000 participants, will be a part of this phase three clinical trial. But coming here to the University of Miami, to be able to partner with you, Dean Ford, and the entire team here is a great privilege.And President Trump wanted me to be here  wanted me to be here, first and foremost, to say to the people of Florida that we are with you. Well stay with you every step of the way.Were encouraged by the favorable trends here in Florida, but well continue to make sure your healthcare workers have the resources to provide the level of care that any one of us would want a family member to be able to have the level of care thats been being delivered here at the University of Miami hospital system every day during the challenging days through which you have just passed.But today is a day of hope. Today is a day of promise. And today is a day, I think, that  that is a tribute to American ingenuity and to President Trumps relentless drive toward achieving medicines and a vaccine for the American people.Its remarkable to think that the company that will begin phase three today, a company known as Moderna, actually was the first company in America to begin phase one clinical trials back in the month of March. And as Dr. Stephen Hahn of the FDA may reflect in just a moment, that was in record time. Literally, it would just be a matter of weeks from when the United States first received the coding for the coronavirus that we were able to initiate an effort to develop a vaccine. And in 62 days, a period of time never heard of in vaccine development, we were able to go to phase one trial.But today, here in Florida, we begin the first phase three clinical trial for a coronavirus vaccine, and we begin it  we begin it in a spirit of the same urgency and the same hopefulness from which it began.We have moved, at President Trumps direction, at a historic pace. But as Dr. Hahn will also reflect, we are going to ensure that we move at a safe and effective pace. And I want to assure the people of Florida and people all across this country that we will cut no corners in the development of this or any vaccine.Were truly grateful for the support of members of Congress in both political parties that have made more than 10 billion available. I want to thank Congressman Mario DazBalart, who is with us today, as well as the Florida delegation to the House and the Senate for their support.Because its important to note that under Operation Warp Speed, were not even waiting to the end of clinical trials to create the vaccines. Whether it be Moderna or it was announced last week with Pfizer, were actually having these companies produce the vaccines as we speak. And as soon as they are confirmed to be safe and effective, well have tens of millions of doses able to distribute across the country. It is that initiative, the President launched in Operation Warp Speed that is a reflection of our commitment to bring these medicines, to bring a vaccine to the American people just as soon as we can responsibly do it.But let me say  let me say thank you again to just a few more folks. I want to thank Governor Ron DeSantis and his entire team for your leadership during the trying days through which Florida has just passed and throughout this pandemic. It is a  it is a tribute to Governor DeSantiss professionalism and to his heart that, from very early on, Florida has leaned into this effort. And I particularly would commend the Governors efforts to look after seniors who weve known from the beginning  seniors with serious underlying health conditions  represented the most vulnerable to serious outcomes. And it was efforts here in Florida that really  really became a model for longterm care around the country. And well continue, as the Governor said, to support those efforts in the days ahead.I want to thank the University of Miami not just for being the site of the first phase three clinical trial, but just as much, Dean Ford and your team here, for everything that youve done throughout this pandemic and in the difficult weeks through which Florida has just passed. To have a separate COVIDonly hospital to be able to continue to operate your hospital for all the other healthcare needs in the community is a tribute to the innovation and effectiveness of the doctors and nurses and all the healthcare workers in this extraordinary facility.Finally, I want to say thank you to all of those whove agreed to participate in this clinical trial. It is remarkable to think 30,000 Americans were willing to step forward and to participate in this phase three clinical trial, and they have our thanks. People who have volunteered to participate in this and other trials are doing more than their fair share to help our nation through this challenging time, and they have our thanks.For anyone looking on who would like to be a part of either this clinical trial or other clinical trials for therapeutics or for vaccines, you can go to ClinicalTrials.gov and be a part. Thats ClinicalTrials.gov, and you can get information on how you can participate.But we all have a role to play. And we all know that each and every one of us, by practicing good hygiene, washing our hands, wearing a mask every time that state and local authorities indicate its appropriate, or wearing a mask when you cant properly socially distance is how each of us can play a role. But for those Americans, literally more than 100,000 who have stepped forward and volunteered to participate in clinical trials around the country, you have our thanks as well.Today, I said, is a great day in America. The first phase three clinical trial for a coronavirus vaccine begins here in Florida and in 89 different sites around the country. And it begins with the best professionalism of our pharmaceutical companies in this country. American innovation, American creativity begins with the hopes and, I know, the prayers of the American people.And Im convinced more than ever on this great day that well get through this. And we will reach that day, I truly believe, as Dr. Fauci said not long ago, when if not  or not if, but when we will have a vaccine, well have it available to distribute to tens of millions of Americans. And well reach that day when we finally can begin to put this coronavirus in the past.So with that, Im going to turn it over to Dr. Stephen Hahn for his remarks and then  and then, really, one of the  one of the leaders of the clinical effort here at the University of Miami, and well take a few questions.Dr. Hahn?DR. HAHN Thank you, Mr. Vice President and Dean Ford, and Dr. DobleckiLewis. Thank you for hosting us today. In the early part of this pandemic, President Trump and Vice President Pence asked FDA to make sure that we removed any unnecessary barriers to the development of medical products, and we have followed that request.Today, we are seeing the initiation of the first phase three clinical trial of a vaccine candidate. And that is, as to the Vice President said, a historic event in an incredibly short period of time.I want to thank my colleagues  my medical colleagues who are in the frontline taking care of patients, but also who put together this clinical trial and are helping to enroll patients, and ensuring that its done in the absolute highestquality way.It is a true sign of Americas great biomedical research enterprise that we find ourselves here today. Normally, this process would take months and years. And its to the dedication of great medical professionals and researchers that weve gotten to this point.Conducting clinical trials are a crucial piece of our efforts to approve a vaccine for COVID19. FDA has oversight over a number of clinical trials for both therapeutics and vaccines  in fact, over 140  with more than 450 therapeutics in the pipeline. And I want to thank, like the Vice President did, the Americans who have stepped forward to volunteer for these trials, because they are our true heroes as we evaluate the efficacy and safety of a vaccine.Now, the important scientific data that we will get from the phrase three clinical trials  and this is, of course, one clinical trial that were going to see, but several others are planning to go to phase three in the next several weeks  and the data that come from those clinical trials will allow FDA to do its important work to determine whether a vaccine is safe and effective.And were doing everything we can at FDA to support that development by providing regulatory and scientific advice, as well as technical assistance for how to conduct those clinical trials the number of people that need to be in those clinical trials so that we can have confidence in the data as well as to make sure that theres diversity in the clinical trial population, because what we want is to have generalizability of those results to the entire United States population.As I mentioned, we expect a number of additional trials to go into phase three in the next several weeks to months, and thats good news for the American people.As we laid out in our guidance regarding vaccines and in all of our actions to COVID19, FDA scientists will not cut corners in order to evaluate a medical product, and that includes a vaccine. And I know that our colleagues performing these clinical trials want to have and must have confidence that we will do that as we evaluate the data that they generate for that vaccine.Its these scientists who will call the balls and strikes on approving a vaccine, and they will make their decisions based upon the data and science thats generated from these clinical trials. We will authorize or approve a vaccine solely on the basis of the data that we receive in the determination of safety and efficacy.So I really appreciate the leadership of the University of Miami and other investigators around the country. Again, its the truly great American research enterprise that allows us to get to this point, and Americans can have confidence in FDA that we will make the absolute best decision on their behalf.Thank you.DR. DOBLECKILEWIS Good afternoon. Im Susanne DobleckiLewis. Im the site principal investigator for the University of Miami site for the Coronavirus Prevention Network and for the first phase three clinical trial of that network, which is the Moderna vaccine trial.Were incredibly excited to begin this process here at the University of Miami, and we are really amazed and humbled by the number of volunteers who have already stepped forward to be a part of this trial. And its these volunteers, as the others said, who will make the difference and will allow us to know whether we do have an effective and safe vaccine that can move forward.Here at the University of Miami, we are very aware of the need to shape our enrollment to reflect our strength, which is the diversity of our population here, and particularly the diversity of people who are at high risk for COVID19. So we take that mandate very seriously, and well plan to enroll 1,000 patients here 500 will get the vaccine and 500 will get placebo.Well follow those patients very carefully for two years after the second injection of the vaccine. The vaccine consists of two injections, phased 28 days apart. And well be following extremely carefully, checking for any symptoms of potential COVID disease, and performing followup swabs and assessments to make sure that we completely understand the efficacy of the vaccine.So were very, very happy to be at this point, and optimistic and looking forward to beginning our enrollment here.Thank you.THE VICE PRESIDENT Thank you, Doctor. Questions?