James S. Brady Press Briefing Room136 P.M. EDTMS. MCENANY Hello, everyone. The first duty of government is to protect the safety of our citizens. Thats what Attorney General Barr said when he was here at the White House just a few days ago. For 55 days in Portland, Oregon, weve seen lawlessness, anarchy, and destruction that threatens peace in our streets and the safety of our fellow American citizens and the safety of our brave law enforcement officers.Yet some Democrats and some in the media continue to ignore reality. As Portlands  Portlands Democrat Mayor Ted Wheeler tweeted, quote, What I saw last night was powerful in many ways. I listened, heard, and stood with the protesters. And I saw what it means when the federal government unleashes paramilitary forces against its own people. That was a quote from the Democrat mayor who quite literally stood in the middle of a riot as violent protestors attacked a federal building. That is appalling, and Mayor Wheeler is clearly failing at his duty to protect his streets and his city there in Portland.The federal government has a sworn duty to uphold the laws of the United States through field offices and federal facilities across the country. These agents protect and serve the American people. Yet the rhetoric of the left undermines our justice system, with Nancy Pelosi calling them stormtroopers, Jim Clyburn calling them the Gestapo, and Wheeler using the term paramilitary forces.Under President Trump, violent crime rates in America finally began to fall. Rhetoric like this cannot be allowed to set us back. Augmenting the Federal Protective Service, guarding federal property in Portland, our brave officers have  since  since augmenting them, I should say, our brave officers have faced all of these various things  like rioters barricading officers inside the Hatfield federal courthouse, trapping officers inside. A, quote, commercialgrade mortar firework was launched by rioters. A federal agents hand was impaled by planted nails. Another federal agent was shot with a pellet gun, leaving a wound deep to the bone. And tragically, three federal officers were likely left permanently blinded by the rioters using lasers pointed directly at their eyes.These are not the actions of socalled peaceful protesters, and the Trump administration will not stand by and allow anarchy in our streets. Law and order will prevail.And I have a short video for you because I want it to be real what is happening right now in Portland. So if we could play that video, thatd be great.A video clip is played.As you can see, that is anything but a peaceful protest. And this President will always stand on the side of law and order.And with that, Ill take questions. Yes.