James S. Brady Press Briefing Room525 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Thank you, everybody.Thank you.Weve had a tremendous week uniting the country in our fight against the China virus. I have reminded people of the importance of masks when you cant socially distance, in particular. A strong message has been sent out to young people to stop going to crowded bars and other crowded places.Yesterday, we made the amazing announcement for our plans to protect nursing home residents. Were working very hard on that. Were doing very well all over the country. And also about contracting with Pfizer  we made a big, big, beautiful contract with Pfizer. We think theyre very close  but we have a lot of companies that are very close  to produce a vaccine.And I wanted to come out again today to share some additional news with youThis afternoon, my political team came to me and laid out our plans for the convention in Jacksonville, Florida. Its a place I love. I love that state. The drawings look absolutely beautiful. I never thought we could have something look so good, so fast with everything going on. And everything was going well  a tremendous list of speakers thousands of people wanting to be there  and I mean, in some cases, desperately be there. They wanted to attend. People making travel arrangements all over the country they wanted to be there. The pageantry, the signs, the excitement were really, really top of the line.But I looked at my team, and I said, The timing for this event is not right. Its just not right with whats happened recently  the flare up in Florida  to have a big convention. Its not the right time.Its really something that, for me  I have to protect the American people. Thats what Ive always done. Thats what I always will do. Thats what Im about.They said, Sir, we can make this work very easily. We have great enthusiasm. Incredible enthusiasm. Even the polls say about the most enthusiasm theyve seen. We can do this safely, and we can do it responsibly.And I said, Theres nothing more important in our country than keeping our people safe, whether thats from the China virus or the radicalleft mob that you see in Portland  where I want to thank Homeland Security and others in law enforcement for doing a fantastic job over the last few days. They went in, and people were out of control for 51 days  a long time. And Homeland Security and other law enforcement with us went in, and theyve done a great job protecting our property  the federal courthouse and other property  and, most importantly, protecting our people. Or the senseless violence that you see in Chicago or New York or Detroit  a lot of other cities where so many people are shot, and so many people are killed. And people elected me to help and to protect.So, I told my team, Its time to cancel the Jacksonville, Florida, component of the GOP Convention. Well be starting in North Carolina for the Monday, as has always been planned. We were never taking that off. Thats remaining as it is. The delegates are going to get together. Thats where they do their nomination. So, the delegates are going to North Carolina, and theyll be doing the nomination. And were going to do some other things with telerallies and online  the week that were discussing, which will be really good. I think were going to do it well. And Ill still do a convention speech in a different form, but we wont do a big, crowded convention per se. Its just not the right time for that.I care deeply about the people of Florida and everywhere else, frankly, in this country  and even in the world  who would be coming into the state, and I dont want to do anything to upset it. Theyll be doing very well very shortly. Were going to put some maps up of the country behind me, and youll see that the area that were talking about is a hotspot. You will also see a lot of the country is  has no problem whatsoever  most of the country, actually. So Im always going to take care of you, so that thats the way were going to do it.Ive spoken to Governor DeSantis and informed other political leaders. I want to thank the Jacksonville community, and its great mayor. Hes a great  great guy. Really great guy. They wanted it so badly. And all of the other political representatives in Jacksonville and in Florida. And just very special people  a very special group. And they were there for us, 100 percent.Today, I want to provide an update on the actions were taking to support the safe reopening of Americas schools. Parents around the world who have had their children home for the last few months have a greater appreciation for the fact that teachers are essential workers, that theyre essential to our childrens future. Our goal is to protect our teachers and students from the China virus while ensuring that families with highrisk factors can continue to participate from home. Very important.The American Academy of Pediatrics has released guidance recommending that schools reopen. It said, quote Lengthy time away from school and associated interruption of supportive services often results in a social isolation, making it difficult for schools to identify and address important learning deficits as well as child and adolescent physical and sexual abuse, substance use, depression, and suicidal ideation. This, in turn, places children and adolescents at considerable risk of morbidity and, in some cases, mortality. Beyond the educational impact and social impact of school closures, there has been a substantial impact on food security and physical activity for children and for families.So, thats very important, and theres a highway  it goes both ways.The National Education Association recently stated, Despite the momentous efforts of educators during the pandemic, online learning has never been an effective replacement for inperson learning and support. Being at the school, being on the campus is very, very important.One study estimates that, due to school closures last spring, the average student will begin the school year roughly 35 percent behind in reading compared to the typical year, and more than 50 percent behind in math. Thats a big statement.According to McKinsey  Company, learning loss will probably be greatest among lowincome black and Hispanic students. Theyre the ones that are hit the hardest. We dont want that happening.Thirty million American students rely on schools for free and reduced meals. Over 70 percent of the students who receive mental health services do so through their schools. According to HHS, one in five reports allegedly, having to do with child abuse, they have neglect  and these are neglect and neglected cases are submitted by education personnel. So people in the education world, on the premises, will be the ones that report neglect and other problems when they see the children. They know if theyve been neglected. They know if theyve been hurt or harmed in any way, whether its at home or someplace else. But they see this at school. You dont get to see that if youre not going to school. Its a big thing.Fortunately, the data shows that children are lower risk from the China virus, very substantially. When children do contact the virus, they often have only very mild symptoms or none at all, and medical complications are exceedingly rare. Those that do face complications often have underlying medical conditions. Ninetynine percent of all China virus hospitalizations are adults. And 99.96 percent of all fatalities are adults. That means that children are a tiny percentage  less than 1 percent, and even a small percentage of 1 percent.In a typical year, the flu results in more deaths of those under 18 in the United States than have been lost thus far to the coronavirus. Many different names. Many, many different names.The life of every child is sacred and must be protected. Our sole focus is the health and wellbeing of Americas children.I have a very, very special person who loves children, who is  who is, I think, one of the greatest athletes of all time. A lot of people say the greatest pitcher of all time. Known as a relief pitcher who could have been whatever he wanted. Some people  he is the greatest reliever of all time, by far. Substantially more saves than anybody else. In fact, he got the Presidential Medal of Freedom recently.And he  Im reading off these stats. I knew he was the best. I knew he was great, but I didnt know it was almost double anybody else. But hes a man who loves children  has children, loves children, works hard with children. Were going to go outside and be with some little leaguers. Mariano Rivera  you know, hes the Sandman, right? My wife said, Darling, why do they call him the Sandman? I said, You know, they play the song. He just puts the batters to sleep. And thats exactly what happened.So, having Mariano here is a great honor. Thank you very much. He was talking about children in schools. And theres nobody thats done more than you have. Thank you very much, Mariano. Fantastic man.Given these considerations, we believe many school districts can now reopen safely, provided they implement mitigation measures and health protocols to protect families, protect teachers, and to protect students. And we do have to protect the teachers and the families also we have to remember that.All families should be empowered to make the decision that is right for their own circumstance. This is especially important if a child has underlying health conditions or lives with a parent or grandparent who is at high risk.In cities or states that are current hotspots  and youll see that in the map behind me  districts may need to delay reopening for a few weeks, and thats possible. Thatll be up to governors. The decision should be made based on the data and the facts on the grounds in each community, but every district should be actively making preparations to open.Again, the children obviously have a very strong immune system, maybe even as strong as yours. They seem to be able to fight it off and not have a problem. So, its pretty amazing actually. Great, great credit.Our strategy to safely reopen schools mirrors our approach nationwide. As we race toward the completion of a vaccine and therapeutics, the responsible path is to shelter those at highest risk, while allowing those at lower risk  much lower, in the case of young children  to resume work and school and  as long as everyone practices vigilant hygiene and social distancing. We want that.A permanent shutdown was never the strategy, which would ultimately lead to greater mortality and irreversible harms. We dont want to do that.At the same time, we have to get our economy going. We had tremendous numbers issued yesterday. Housing prices  pricing of housing up 21 percent. Its the highest in history. Its the highest number in history. Real estate housing went up 21 percent.Today, the CDC will provide additional guidance for how schools can reopen safely. I hope that local leaders put the full health and wellbeing of their students first and make the right decision for children, parents, teachers, and not make political decisions. This isnt about politics its about something very, very important. This is not about politics. I even think its bad politics if you do the wrong decision. Very bad politics.Were asking Congress to provide 105 billion to schools as part of the next coronavirus relief bill. This funding will support mitigation measures, such as smaller class sizes, more teachers and teacher aides, repurposing spaces to practice social distancing, and crucially, maskwearing. This money is in addition to the 30 billion we secured for schools and universities earlier this year. That money we have some is distributed, and some is not distributed.If schools do not reopen, the funding should go to parents to send their child to public, private, charter, religious, or homeschool of their choice. The key word being choice. If the school is closed, the money should follow the student so the parents and families are in control of their own decisions. So wed like the money to go to the parents of the student. This way, they can make the decision thats best for them.We cannot indefinitely stop 50 million American children from going to school  harming their mental, physical, and emotional development. Reopening our schools is also critical to ensuring that parents can go to work and provide for their families.The Council of Economic Advisers estimates that 5.6 million parents will be unable to return to work if schools do not reopen this year. Thats a tremendous problem. Its a tremendous problem. Schools have to open safely, but they have to open.More than a dozen European countries  as well as South Korea, Taiwan, and many others  have already reopened schools, and cases have not risen. We can achieve the same goal if we unite together, follow the best medical practices, and apply common sense.Well continue to support states and cities in the current hotspots in the South, Southwest, and West. The governors  I know them all. Theyre all very, very capable. Theyre doing a very good job. Theyre working so hard. You wouldnt even believe it.We have nearly 30,000 federal personnel deployed in the states that need assistance. Were helping with doctors and nurses  medical personnel of all kinds. As a PPE update, were in close communication with governors and states.We have supplies  everything they could possibly need. Were very strong on supplies. Remember I used to say the cupboards were bare? Well, now the cupboards are the opposite.Due to our historic efforts to increase both the National Stockpile and the state stockpiles, the vast majority of the states have 60 days worth of supplies on hand. And most importantly, they have ventilators  because the ventilators are very, very hard to come by, at least in the past. Now were making thousands of ventilators a month and supplying them, in many cases, to other countries.For states that are making requests, were rapidly delivering. In the last 24 hours, FEMA has deployed more than 1.5 million masks upon request, 1.7 million gowns, and 600,000  well, let me change that. Weve created about 600,000 different supplies. We have 600 ventilators to Arizona, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Colorado, Idaho, and Washington. I think the number is 600. Well go check that, and well give it you in a little while. But weve  weve got a stockpile of thousands of ventilators. I think weve sent out about 600 just recently.The United States has now conducted more than 51 million tests, which is more than any other country in the world, by far. Roughly half of the tests are either the rapid, pointof care tests, which, frankly, solves a lot of problem in delay  5 to 15 minutes, instead of waiting for service both ways, in both directions, and then at the lab. But roughly half of them now, which is a tremendous increase, are 5 to 15minute tests or tests done in a hospital where you get the results back in less than a day  in some cases, immediately.Were continuing to surge testing to current ho  hotspots, such as Miami and Phoenix, to detect those with the virus and take steps to stop from spreading it further.This is a copy of the map, and this is a  you have it right behind me. Thats really very much indicating where the problems are. You see from  from that, its in great shape  lots of it. The Northeast has become very clean. The country is in very good shape, other than if you look South and West  some problems. That will all work out.On therapies Weve worked with Florida to ensure that over 40,000 vials of remdesivir are arriving this week. Thats a lot. Thats a really  thats a lot. Theyre working around the clock to make it. Its had a tremendous impact. Weve also shipped thousands of vials to Arizona, California, and Texas over the past two weeks. Arizona is doing very well its heading down. The numbers are heading down, I think, very quickly. The governor has done a great job. Theyve all done a great job. Theyve all done a great job. Working hard.Well continue to monitor the areas rising and  with respect to cases. And we ask all Americans to exercise vigilance, practice social distancing, wear a mask, do whatever is necessary so we get rid of this horrible situation  this horrible disease that was sent to us by China.It should not have been sent. They should have stopped it. They could have stopped it. They didnt. And the entire world has gotten infected, and a lot of countries are going through a lot right now.This morning, I spoke with President Putin of Russia, and theyre going through a very hard time with this  in Moscow, in particular. I spoke to the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia. Theyre doing well, but theyre going through a lot. Everybody is going through a lot.Yesterday, I spoke to the heads of four different countries. All four are going through a lot. Theyre going through a hard time.This could have been stopped. It could have been stopped quickly and easily. But for some reason, it wasnt, and well figure out what that reason was.So, with that, if you have any questions  please.