Pastides Alumni CenterUniversity of South CarolinaColumbia, South Carolina137 P.M. EDTGOVERNOR MCMASTER Id like to welcome everyone here to the University of South Carolina. This is where weve had many of our meetings concerning the pandemic. And weve gotten a lot of great ideas in this place, and we got some more today. We appreciate very much the effort of the Vice President, Secretary, the Administrator, and coming here and being with us, as well as Superintendent.And we look forward very much to your questions.Mr. Vice President.THE VICE PRESIDENT Great. Well, thank you, Governor McMaster. I want to thank you and First Lady Peggy for the hospitality today. Karen and I are honored to be here with you, grateful for your strong and steadfast leadership throughout this pandemic. And as we see cases rising across South Carolina, on behalf of the President and our entire White House Coronavirus Task Force, Governor McMaster, I want to thank you for the seamless partnership that we have forged on behalf of the health and wellbeing of the people of South Carolina.But with rising cases here in the state, the President wanted me to be here today with a very simple message for the people of South Carolina, and that is We are with you. And were going to work closely with your governor and with all your state health officials to make sure that the people of this state have the testing, the personal protective equipment, and the therapeutics, and the supplies to meet this moment.And, Governor, I  again, I want to  I want to thank you for organizing the discussions that we had today. I mean, having the opportunity to meet with your health team, to hear your perspective on whats happening on the ground in South Carolina, and the great efforts that healthcare workers are making all across this state and the great cooperation of the people of South Carolina, I know that well get through this and well get through this together.President Trump will be briefing the nation later today on our administrations efforts, working with states, particularly across the Sun Belt, with the  in midst of rising cases. But let me just say a few words about our response.As, Governor, you know with  the rise in cases across the Sun Belt is serious, but the people of South Carolina should know that we are in a much better place to respond to this pandemic across the south than we were two and three months ago.But because of the partnership weve forged with your governor, with governors around the country because of the wholeofAmerica response that President Trump initiated that has taken testing to nearly 50 million tests having been performed across the country the development of hundreds of millions of personal protective equipment over 100,000 ventilators being constructed in 100 days and the rapid development of therapeutics, whether it be remdesivir or convalescent plasma, or others that are under active consideration at the FDA  that, combined with the Operation Warp Speeds development of vaccines, we are leaning into this effort and we are  we are in a much better place to make sure that your governor and your healthcare providers in this state have the support and resources, but to provide any member of your family with the level of healthcare that we would want for a member of our family.Were proud of what South Carolina has accomplished. Governor, I think, in March, you were performing roughly 540 tests per day now nearly 10,000 tests a day. And  and I also want to commend you, Governor, for the efforts youve made protecting the most vulnerable.From very early on, weve recognized that seniors with serious underlying health conditions represent those most vulnerable to the coronavirus. And to that end, Seema Verma, in a few moments, will detail a plan that we unveiled last week building on our efforts to focus resources and measures and standards on nursing homes. We announced last week that the federal government will be distributing pointofcare tests  15minute tests  to all 15,400 nursing homes in America, beginning at the end of this week. And Seema Verma, with the Center for Medicaid and Medicaid Services, will describe that.With regard to supplies Im informed, Governor, that as of July 9th, FEMA and HHS have delivered to South Carolinanearly a half a million surgical masks, not including nearly 400,000 N95 respirators, tens of thousands of face shields and coveralls. And weve also made certain that you will continue to have the ventilators here in South Carolina that are  that are needed for people facing the most serious consequences.Seema Verma will also talk for a moment about healthcare capacity. We are monitoring healthcare capacity across the Sun Belt. And while there are instances where some hospitals in states that are being impacted by rising cases, there are instances where individual hospitals are beginning to reach capacity.The report that we received today here in South Carolina and all across the Sun Belt is that overall hospital capacity remains strong, hospital beds are available. But we launched a new website this week to make sure that hospitals are giving us realtime information so that we can continue to work with states to make sure that that remains the case and that hospitals have the supply that they need.But beyond all of that  and were focused on saving lives, protecting our most vulnerable, but as we discussed today, were also focused on reopening America opening up America again and opening up Americas schools. And, Governor, I want to  I want to commend you for your steady efforts to put the people of South Carolina back to work. Im informed that more than 105,000 South Carolinians have joined or rejoined the workforce in the month of June, and your unemployment rate in this state has dropped from over 12 percent to just under 9 percent.I think the American people and people across this state realize that when it comes to a choice between dealing with the pandemic or opening up America, its not an eitheror we can do both. We all have a role to play. All of us need to do our part to practice personal hygiene, wash our hands, wear a mask wherever state or local authorities determine its indicated or where the social distancing is not possible.But, Governor, youre proving here in South Carolina that you can put this economy back to work. And youve already unveiled a plan to reopen schools across South Carolina, and that was much of what our discussion was today.And on behalf of the President and our entire task force, I want to thank you. I want to thank you for leading the way on getting our kids back in the classroom. We heard today from education leaders from across this state, and I was  I was deeply inspired by the words that I heard.In just a few moments, Ill yield the podium to the Superintendent of Anderson School District Five. Superintendent Tom Wilson today reflected very memorably on the academic impact on children, especially children who are struggling learning how to read. The reality is that the  that without getting our kids back into school this fall, children that are struggling academically, children that are struggling with learning how to read will fall farther and farther behind with longterm consequences on their academic future and needs.Also, I was deeply moved today to hear from Janie Neeley, the mother of a special needs 4yearold by the name of Marsh. Marsh has Downs syndrome. And Janie spoke very eloquently about  about the fact that Marsh misses his friends. He misses his teachers. He misses the counseling that he receives as special needs students do uniquely in schools around this country.And so, Governor McMaster, we commend you for your efforts to get our kids back into school. And we commend President Caslens efforts to reopen the University of South Carolina. We understand we dont want our kids to fall behind academically, as Superintendent Wilson reflected, but also, its so important to recognize  whether its special needs, whether its nutrition needs, whether its counseling for emotional needs  millions and millions of children across this country rely on services that are only available at their schools.And so for the sake of their academic wellbeing, for the sake of their personal wellbeing, Governor, you recognized today, as your team did, that its vitally important that we reopen our schools.Its also To reopen the American economy, we got to reopen our schools. Its  the reality is that for working parents, working moms and dads, there is a great hardship in children not returning to school. I heard a statistic on the way here that that less than 25 percent of single parents are able to telework, which puts a great, great burden on their ability to both be a parent and also provide for their family.In hearing all that good counsel today, I just reiterated to the governor that were going to continue to provide the resources and the guidance so that states like South Carolina can safely reopen schools, as you reopen your economy and deal with rising cases across this state.Im pleased to report, with a grateful nod to your congressional delegation, especially Senator Lindsey Graham and Senator Tim Scott, that weve already secured more than 30 billion in funding for states 13 billion for elementary and secondary education, and more than 14 for higher education. And I know, Governor, you just made an announcement about the distribution of those resources to school systems and universities here in South Carolina.Ill also pledge to you that our team is on Capitol Hill today negotiating and discussing a phase four of our recovery and relief legislation. And the President made it clear to our negotiators yesterday that we want education funding to be a centerpiece of any additional recovery efforts by the Congress of the United States. And so more help is on the way, Governor, and were going to continue to support your efforts and efforts across this country to get our kids back to school.And finally, well continue to give additional guidance. From early March, the Centers for Disease Control has issued consistent guidance for schools, providing additional tools for operating schools safely.And in the days ahead, the CDC will be issuing additional decisionmaking tools for parents and guardians, preparing K12 school administrators for a safe return in the fall, and limitations and considerations on symptom screening and the like. That guidance will be forthcoming in the days ahead, and we look forward to providing that to you, as well as to all the great education leaders all across this state.Finally, let me just say to the people of South Carolina what I said in the beginning  is that on behalf of the President of the United States and our entire White House Coronavirus Task Force Were with you, and were going to stay with you every step of the way until we put this coronavirus in the past. Were going to continue to partner  partner with the  with your governor and with all your health officials and your hospitals to make sure our healthcare workers have the support and the supplies that they need to render healthcare to anyone impacted by the coronavirus. And were going to continue to work  continue to work in ways that can open up the states economy again and get our kids back into school.But we all do have a role to play. We can slow the spread. We can flatten the curve. We can save lives. What we saw when this pandemic first struck our country was that with the full cooperation of the American people, with the full support of our healthcare workers, we can accomplish those things. We did it in the Greater New York City area we did it in New Orleans and Michigan, and other places. We have every confidence that with the full cooperation the American people, the dedication of our healthcare workers, with the strong leadership of administrations like yours, Governor McMaster, that we will do it again in the Sun Belt.But I do want to encourage each one of your citizens, as I said before, to heed local guidance when it comes to wearing a mask or where  or just wear a mask when social distancing is not possible. Wash your hands. Practice  practice personal hygiene. Each one of us has a role to play, and well get through this, I know, by putting the health of our neighbors first, looking after the future of our economy, looking after the future of our kids, getting our schools back open again. And well get through this, and well get through this together.With that, Im going to recognize the Secretary of Education for a report, and the Director of the  of the Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services.But before that, I ask the Superintendent, Tom Wilson, of Anderson School District 5 to share a few of his thoughts on just how important it is that schools in South Carolina reopen, and maybe to reflect for a few moments on the plan that theyve announced to get kids back in the classroom in school district 5 starting on September the eighth.Superintendent.SUPERINTENDENT WILSON Thank you, Mr. Vice President and Governor McMaster. I shared with the panel a few moments ago our plans to reopen schools in Anderson School District 5. We will open September the 8th. We will give parents a choice of facetoface or a virtual academy thats being developed, where they can weve been surveying our parents. We believe well have about 20 percent of our parents choose to do that, but it is a choice of the parents. At the semester break in January, theyll have the possibility come back to facetoface, if they so desire, and hopefully the spread will be somewhat flattened at that point.I think what resonated with the group a few moments ago was what I want to share with youAs of March the 16th, all the schools in this state were closed. And Anderson School District 5, we were way ahead of everybody because we had developed it. We were the first school district in the state to have elearning. We piloted elearning. And other districts followed us, and we mentored other districts.And we invested millions and millions of dollars in technology, Chromebooks  from kindergarten to 12th grade  digital integration specialists, fixit people to keep things up and running.Elearning  and you might hear the word remote learning, elearning, different terms  it was never intended for 25 percent of the school year for kids to be out of school. It was intended, in this state, for three or four days, when we had to call school off for snow. But we were the best of a bad lot because we were the best at elearning, and, still, it was very successful for a lot of students, but it was not successful for a lot of students, primarily the poor, the low income, single parents.And the difficulty we had is when mom or dad has to be at Electrolux making refrigerators at 700 a.m.  they cannot telework. Teleworking is really, quite honestly, a professional opportunity for professional staff. They cant. They have to work. They work with their hands. They build things.And as a result, we had a lot of kids who had very little support. Our research tells us that if a child has a ineffective teacher for two years in a row, the chances of them graduating from high school is basically slim to none. If they have no teacher for two years in a row, I assure you they will not graduate. And what keeps me up at night are those kids that left us on March the 16th that were kindergarteners, first graders, second graders, third graders, fourth, and maybe even fifth graders, that were struggling readers.And I dare say there may be a few people in this room that could teach somebody how to read. I cant. Ive been doing  Ive been in public schools for 44 years been a principal teacher, superintendent. I ca  I dont know how to teach your child to read. Thats not my  I wasnt trained. Teaching reading is a science and its also an art, and it has to be done at the shoulder of a child, for most children.And so what I worry about are those struggling readers. If we dont get them back face to face with a teacher, six, seven years from now, eight years from now, were going to see a dropout rate like weve never seen, because kids drop out of school because they find it irrelevant and boring. And when they get on up in where they can drop out, then theyll quit and they wont graduate. And all of us in this room and all of us in this state and all of us in this country are going to pay the burden and pay the price for that, because what will happen Well continue to put more people on the train and less people pulling it. And those of us that are pulling, and everybody in this room, it will cost us more because they will never be able to get it.Those of you who have little children We can teach a 5yearold Spanish like that, but try to teach it to a 40year old or a 25yearold its very difficult.So, reading is essential. Thats crucial. I worry about the elementary a lot more than a high school. I told our teachers, our principals The tip of the spear is our elementary teachers because thats where  that  thats where the battle will be won. And we look forward to doing that.I commend the Governor for his support of opening schools, and were going to do it. And we look forward to getting back. We look forward to working with our virtual academy. And its been an honor to be with you today, Governor, Vice President. And thank you.THE VICE PRESIDENT Great words, Tom. Thank you.Betsy.SECRETARY DEVOS Thank you so much, Mr. Vice President. Its really a privilege to be here with you in South Carolina today. Governor McMaster, thank you so much for hosting us and for your leadership here in the Palmetto State. And, Superintendent Wilson, thank you for so clearly articulating how imperative it is that kids be able to get back to school this fall.I really resonated also, in the previous session, with what Dr. Caslen said. And he said, As South Carolinas flagship university, I believe that we bear the responsibility to open our doors to students, most of whom are eager to resume their education in person and on campus. We must get schools back open, and we know we can do it safely. The science on this is clear, and its only growing stronger. Its critical to students health and wellbeing. It isnt a question of health versus safety its a question of health versus health. Students need access to the services they receive at school. They need to be with their teachers and their friends and they need to be learning and growing. Thanks to the Presidents leadership, weve made sure the needed resources are there to make it happen safely.South Carolinas K12 schools have already received 126 million under the CARES Act. But we know  also know that for too many students, especially the most disadvantaged, they might  may not have the right option for them and their families right now, or their assigned school may just be refusing to open.And I think of what mom Janie Neeley said in the previous session about the need for her son, Marsh, to have that inperson experience with teachers and with students. And I think also about Principal Akis sic Ross  Akil Ross, who talked about the imperative to be focusing on what students need and doing the right thing for students.I want to applaud again Governor McMaster for the leadership hes shown in supporting all students. These Safe Access to Flexible Education, or SAFE, grants he announced yesterday will ensure that a students personal and family circumstances dont limit them from accessing the best education possible. This is a model, frankly, that the nation should follow. Its the Presidents vision for every American student and why hes fighting to pass school choice now.We know that Congress is looking at how to best provide more relief, and this administration is going to fight for every student to go back to school safely and at a school that will best meet their unique needs.When the assigned schools fail to rise to the challenge, we believe students and parents deserve a choice to go somewhere else, and the tax dollars meant to support their students education should go with them, not to a system.So with that, again, Mr. Vice President, thank you for your leadership, and I look forward to continuing to work to ensure all students can get back to their learning safely and promptly.THE VICE PRESIDENT Good. Thanks.Seema?ADMINISTRATOR VERMA Thank you. And thank you, Governor, for hosting us today. Its a pleasure to be here, and appreciate all of your strong efforts on opening schools.You know, one of the things with the Medicaid program that I run is that we provide a lot of healthcare services inside the schools. Kids get vision services, they get screenings, immunizations. And so its not only part of their learning these healthcare services are important to their health, but also for their ability to learn. So, really appreciate your efforts to open the schools.When the pandemic started, the President and the Vice President were very clear on our mission protecting the vulnerable and making sure that healthcare workers on the frontlines had what they needed to fight this battle.And so let me start with nursing homes. Thats our  one of our most vulnerable populations. We know that nursing homes have been hit hard, but also, for the residents, its been an extraordinarily difficult time. Theyve been separated from their families, havent had a chance to visit, and then many times, theyre restricted inside the room. So its been a very difficult time, but we appreciate all of the strong leadership, especially at the state level.We asked states at the very beginning to do inspections across the board of their nursing homes. Almost 97 percent of those have been completed in South Carolina. And the President has also wanted to make sure that nursing homes have the tools that they needed. FEMA has been sending supplies directly to nursing homes. Weve also made grants available to nursing homes so that they can buy iPads and computers so that their residents can communicate with their loved ones.And more recently, as were opening up, we want to make sure that nursing homes have the continued focused on testing. Weve asked that they test their resident  at least do a onetime pass. And also, for their healthcare workers, that they do that testing on a weekly basis.And we announced last week that were going to be providing pointofcare tests inside the nursing home to every nursing home across the country  thats over 15,400 nursing homes  and thats going to allow them to do rapid testing, get those results back in 15 minutes. They can identify staff that have been impacted and also make sure that residents that are  that are sick and those  and separate the ones that are sick from those that are not. And so thats going to be a critical effort.It also relieves the testing as some of the  it relieves the system, in terms of the testing capacity. If nursing homes can do that inside their nursing home, then that relieves the labs from being able to test more people. So thats really critical as well.And then, finally, its also that path forward for patients, residents to be united with their families, because that pointofcare testing could also enable visitors. So were very excited about that. We think this is going to be very important for our nursing homes.And also, one of the other things that were doing with our nursing homes across the country is making sure that they have the support. Weve engaged our quality improvement organizations to go inside nursing homes. So once inspectors have identified problems, were actually putting organizations on the ground to provide them the support, answer any questions, and make sure that they have a safe environment for residents.The other piece that the Vice President mentioned today was the HHS Protect system. And we announced this week that we are putting up a system which allows our hospitals to directly report information to HHS. And they  the type of information that theyre reporting are their inpatient beds, their ICU capacity. That gives us the ability to make sure that they have the supplies that they need, whether its remdesivir, whether its N95 masks.Us understanding whats going on in the hospital, in terms of their capacity, the patients theyre seeing, is so critical. And we appreciate the hospitals across the country that have voluntarily provided that data to us. And its just so critical to making sure that those healthcare heroes that are on the frontlines have the supplies and the support that they need.Thank you very much.THE VICE PRESIDENT Great. Great.Questions? Yes, please.