James S. Brady Press Briefing Room510 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Well, thank you very much, and good afternoon. Today, I want to provide an update on our response to the China virus and what my administration is doing to get the outbreak in the Sun Belt under control. It seems largely in Sun Belt but could be spreading.My team is also working night and day with Capitol Hill to advance the next economic relief package. Were working very hard on it. Were making a lot of progress. I also know that both sides want to get it done. Well call it phase four. I think were going to get it done. Well protect our workers, our schools, and our families, and protect them very strongly.As one family, we mourn every precious life thats been lost. I pledge in their honor that we will develop a vaccine and we will defeat the virus. Were doing very well with vaccine development and therapeutic development. But I want to thank our brave doctors and nurses and frontline responders. The job they do is incredible, and they are truly brave.My administration will stop at nothing to save lives and shield the vulnerable, which is so important. Weve learned so much about this disease. And we know who the vulnerable are, and we are going to indeed shield them.And again, the vaccines are coming, and theyre coming a lot sooner than anyone thought possible, by years. If you look at the old system and look at the new system, I think by years.The China virus is a vicious and dangerous illness, but weve learned a great deal about it and who it targets. We are in the process of developing a strategy thats going to be very, very powerful. Weve developed them as we go along. Some areas of our country are doing very well others are doing less well. It will probably, unfortunately, get worse before it gets better  something I dont like saying about things, but thats the way it is. Its the way  its what we have. If you look over the world, its all over the world, and it tends to do that.The governors are working very, very hard, and we are supporting them 100 percent. Everything they need, they get. And we are taking good care. We have tremendous supplies and a great supply chain, whether its ventilators or gowns or just about anything they need. So thats a big difference from inheriting very, very empty cupboards.The median age of those who succumb to the China virus is 78 years old. Roughly half of all deaths have been individuals in nursing homes or in longterm care. In one study, 90 percent of those hospitalized had underlying medical conditions, whether its heart or diabetes, but usually its some kind of a condition. It seems that people have that. And if they do, its a problem  no question about it.Young adults may often have mild or even no symptoms. They wont even know theyre sick. They wont have any idea that they have a virus. They wont have any idea at all.Americas youth will act responsibly, and were asking everybody that when you are not able to socially distance, wear a mask, get a mask. Whether you like the mask or not, they have an impact. Theyll have an effect. And we need everything we can get.Data shows children have the lowest fatality risk. 99.96 percent of all virus fatalities are in adults. Think of that. So thats much, much, much less than 1 percent for children, young people.By understanding these risk profiles and learning how to treat the disease, weve been able to greatly reduce mortality in the United States. In fact, well show you a chart and how well we do compared to the rest of the world. We have several treatments already available that significantly reduce the severity and duration of the disease, including remdesivir, which has been very successful and a widely available steroid treatment. And we have many more happening and coming out.Weve learned best practices for treatment of the virus at every stage and have shared these findings with medical providers, and weve shared them all over the world. The relationship with other countries has been very strong. Were all working together. This includes ensuring all hospitals are aware of the importance of different approaches to oxygen treatment, including highflow oxygen, the importance of steroid treatment for those on ventilators.And when youre on a ventilator, weve learned a tremendous about the use of the ventilator. And at the beginning, people never had an experience like this, where we needed so many ventilators so fast, and even the use of the ventilators. But the doctors have become incredibly  and nurses and helpers have become incredibly good at the use of a ventilator, which is actually a very complicated procedure.And allocating remdesivir to hospitals based on new admission since it works best early in hospitalization. And thats something that theyve really started. Theyre using it much earlier. Fatalities nationwide have fallen 75 percent since midApril. Its a great number.As cases and fatalities rise in certain hardhit states, which youre looking at right now, were surging personnel, supplies, and therapeutics. We again have tremendous amounts of supplies. We are in very good shape, and we can move them quickly.Our case fatality rate has continued to decline and is lower than the European Union and almost everywhere else in the world. If you watch American television, youd think that the United States was the only country involved with and suffering from the China virus. Well, the world is suffering very badly. But the fact is that many countries are suffering very, very, very badly, and theyve been suffering from this virus for a long time.Weve done much better than most. And with the fatality rate at a lower rate than most, its something that we can talk about, but were working, again, with them because were helping a lot of countries that people dont even know about. I get calls all the time asking for help, especially as it pertains to the ventilators. They need help with ventilators they have to get them. Theyre very hard to get. Were making thousands now a month  thousands of ventilators a month. Its been quite amazing.We keep doing the good job, and things will get better and better. Well be putting up charts behind me showing different statistics and different rates of success and, I guess you could say also, things that we can do better on. But youll see them. Therell be put up as we go.In April, the average age of individuals who tested positive for the virus was over 50 years old. Today, the average age is significantly younger. Hospital lengths of stay are almost half of what they were in April. So the stays are about half. The rate of cases requiring hospitalization has been reduced. And mortality among those admitted to the hospital is nearly one half of what it was in April.Weve learned a lot. Weve learned a lot about this disease, how to handle it. The doctors have learned a lot, not only in the use of the ventilators but in many other things. And things are happening too, like the remdesivir and other elements, steroids, et cetera.But these trends could change without our continued and relentless focus. And thats what we have  we have a relentless focus. And its been that way from the beginning. But we have learned so much.As you know, in recent weeks weve seen a concerning rise in the cases in many parts of our south  if you look at South, Southwest, and West. This growth in cases first began to appear in midJune, primarily among 18 to 35yearolds, many of whom were asymptomatic.Were also facing the challenge of a significant spicespike in virus cases across the rest of the Western Hemisphere, including Mexico. Mexico has been hit very, very, very hard. As you know, the president, a great gentleman, was here two weeks ago. And they have really been hit hard.Because weve achieved a nearly fourfold increase in testing capacity in two months, were successfully identifying more asymptomatic and mild cases. Some cases so mild that you really dont even treat them. Some cases with children, where they dont even know that theyre ill. And I guess theyre not very ill because they recover almost immediately.Per capita, the U.S. is conducting 50 percent more tests than Europe, and weve conducted nearly three times as many tests as all of the other countries in the Western Hemisphere combined. Well be over 50 million tests. This allows us to isolate those who are infected, even those without symptoms. So we know exactly where its going and when its going to be there.Were also working to reduce turnaround time. My administration has been aggressively responding to case growth in the Sun Belt, and we continue to do so, working very close with all governors, but right now, in particular, those governors.Were coordinating closely with hospitals and governors. In the last three weeks, Ive sent senior officials into nine states to meet with governors and provide recommendations to the various leaders of the state, including hospital administrators, et cetera.My administration currently has zero unfilled requests for  unfulfilled requests for equipment or anything else that they need from the governors. No governor needs anything right now, and we think well have it that way until the end, because, frankly, we are stocked up and ready to go wherever we have to go.We have nearly 7,000 National Guard and military medical personnel in Texas, California, Florida, and Arizona thats helping us greatly. I want to thank them very much. The military has been fantastic.Were closely monitoring hospital capacity in these states. Hospitals are open for elective surgeries and other procedures. So hospitals are open for elective surgeries.We want Americans to get the medical treatments they need. All of the governors weve spoken with say they have enough bed capacity. Thats a great thing. Our initial shutdown was to prevent the overflow of our hospitals and to allow us to meet the demands caused by this global pandemic, including the ventilators.And a permanent shutdown was really never an option. In terms of what were doing right now, this would be completely unsustainable, produce debilitating economic fallback, and lead to catastrophic public health consequences. There are consequences to shutdowns.And weve saved, potentially, millions of lives by doing the initial shutdown, but now were very aware of this disease. We understand the disease, to a large extent. Nobody is going to maybe ever fully understand it, but well end up with a cure, well end up with therapeutics, well end up with a vaccine very soon  all three.Were instead asking Americans to use masks, socially distance, and employ vigorous hygiene  wash your hands every chance you get  while sheltering highrisk populations. We are imploring young Americans to avoid packed bars and other crowded indoor gatherings. Be safe and be smart.Were surging testing capacity to identify and isolate cases. This includes a newly approved testing platform to nursing homes across the South. Were being very, very vigilant with respect to nursing homes, because you know all of the problems that weve had with so many people  so sadly, they were infected  so that all of the staff and residents can be routinely tested and isolated to ensure our elderly are even more strongly protected than anybody else. Thats really the highrisk people  the highrisk, wonderful people.Once this current surge in cases declines, the same testing platform will enable people to visit their loved ones after taking a test, which is a big difference. Ultimately, our goal is not merely to manage the pandemic but to end it. We want to get rid of it as soon as we can. That is why getting a vaccine remains a top priority.Two vaccine candidates are entering the final stage of clinical trials this month. This was achieved in record time. It used to be years before you were in a position like we are right now. Four other vaccines will enter final trials in the following weeks, and were mass producing all of the top candidates so that the first approved vaccine will be available immediately.And logistically, we have the military ready to go. We have great people  logistic, military people. A wonderful general whos waiting for the vaccine so they can distribute it in record time. Thats whats going to happen. So our military is all set to go. We will deliver a vaccine, therapeutics, whatever it is thats necessary, and defeat the virus once and for all.And Ill take a few questions if youd like.I will say this I want to thank all of the staff  the White House staff, all of the doctors that weve been working with so closely. And just a lot of very positive things are happening. Its a nasty, horrible disease that shouldve never been allowed to escape China, but it did. And it infected the world, and the world is suffering. But were going to get it taken care of, and were helping lots of other countries.Jon.