James S. Brady Press Briefing Room1116 A.M. EDTMS. MCENANY Good morning, everyone. By any objective standard, the violence, chaos, and anarchy in Portland is unacceptable, yet Democrats continue to put politics above peace while this President seeks to restore law and order.Governor Kate Brown, a Democrat  Governor of Oregon  said that the President should, quote, stop playing politics, called law enforcement officers secret police, and likened it to, quote, a dictatorship. The governor also called on the president to get his officers off the streets.Democrat mayor of Portland, Todd Wheeler, said the President is trying to look strong for his base while you had Democrats on the Hill, Nancy Pelosi, calling these officers stormtroopers and Jim Clyburn calling them the Gestapo.This rhetoric is unhelpful and gives the violence we have seen a pass. But President Trump will not give the violence a pass. He will restore order where the Democrat governor and the Democrat mayor are unwilling to admit that they have lost control of their city.The wellorganized mob in Portland has become increasingly aggressive, especially against law enforcement officers. Individuals have thrown bricks, chunks of concrete, glass bottles, feces, balloons filled with paint, pigs feet, slingshots to hurl ball bearings and batteries at federal agents and the courthouse.Multiple attempts to barricade officers in the Hatfield Courthouse have occurred attempts to start the structure on fire as well. Use of eyesightdamaging laser devices have been used, and strobe lights against federal agents as well. But according to Speaker Pelosi, when asked about the violent removal of statues, people will do what they do.The Trump administration urges state and local officials to work cooperatively to restore law and order. Operation LeGend is a great example of this. At the governors request, we went into Kansas City and surged the area with federal assets  FBI, DEA, ATF, and U.S. Marshals. This was named after LeGend Taliferro, a 4yearold young boy who lost his life and was shot in his bed tragically.This has been a successful operation that has been waged in his name, including the arrest of wanted fugitives. Similarly, President Trump is taking action in Portland, even though you have a Democrat mayor and Democrat governor unwilling to work with us in this situation. We are surging resources, along with Secretary Wolf at DHS, and augmenting the Federal Protective Service to safeguard federal property.The bottom line is that this President stands with law and order, which leads to peace. And we will not allow Portland to become the new CHOP, like what we saw in Seattle.And with that, Ill take questions.Jon.