James S. Brady Press Briefing Room230 P.M. EDTMS. MCENANY Hello, everyone. This afternoon, President Trump will deliver remarks on rolling back regulations to help all Americans. Deregulation has been a top priority of this President. The President reversed the disastrous overregulation of the ObamaBiden administration. Under President Trump, seven deregulatory actions have been taken for every one new regulation. This amounted to 50 billion in regulatory cost savings.And it is important to note that this deregu  deregulation agenda lowers costs for every American. The cost of these burdensome regulations fall disproportionately and benefit disproportionately lowerincome Americans. So this President took action to roll back the burdensome regulations that harm lowincome communities and make sure that these lowerincome Americans are taken care of.For example, the Presidents deregulatory agenda will boost household income by 3,100 annually. Thanks to President Trumps rolling back of the ObamaBidenera CAFE standards, family  families will have access to cheaper cars. The Presidents healthcare deregulation will also save patients nearly 10 percent on prescription drug costs.These real wins for the American people will disappear with a reregulation agenda, which is why President Trump will continue to pursue his historic deregulatory activity.On another note We saw encouraging news yesterday on vaccines. Modernas vaccine candidate is showing promising signs. They produced a positive, neutral immune response among the 45 participants in the study. This is comparable to what we see in recovered patients. And the bottom line is that, so far, we are seeing exactly what you would hope to see in a vaccine. Theyre expected  the Moderna vaccine in particular is expected to reach phase three by late July, with 30,000 participantsAnd finally, on the therapeutics front, I just want to note A very encouraging Regeneron contract. A 450 million contract for a monoclonal antibody cocktail. This is a bioengineered version of convalescent plasma, one of the several therapeutics available to treat COVID. It can be used for prophylaxis and treatment. And they say they could have up to 70 to 300 thousand doses  vials of this by the end of the summer or early fall.So Operation Warp Speed continues. We continue to see encouraging news on the therapeutics front. And with that, I will take your questions.Geoff.