Louisiana State UniversityBaton Rouge, Louisiana300 P.M. CDTTHE VICE PRESIDENT Weve had a very productive day. I want to thank Governor John Bel Edwards for the briefings that we received today. I also want to thank  I want to thank the entire team here at LSU for the hospitality. We  its exciting to be in Tiger Stadium, but its inspiring to be on a campus and in a state that are making plans not just to open up the economy again, but to open up our schools again. And were, were truly grateful  truly grateful for the time and the opportunity.President Trump asked me to be here to send a very clear message to the people of Louisiana That were with you, and were going to stay with you until we put this coronavirus completely in the past and we open up this economy, open up our schools, and we move this state and this nation forward bigger and better than ever before.Im particularly, as I said, grateful for Governor John Bel Edwards for the partnership that weve enjoyed over the past four months. Louisiana is really in a unique position. As weve seen rising cases across the Sun Belt, it was here in Louisiana that the people of this state, your state leadership, your healthcare workers have already demonstrated that people of Louisiana know how to slow the spread. They know how to flatten the curve. They did it before, and were very confident Louisiana is going to do it again, as we see rising cases now across the state.I also want to express appreciation to Senator Bill Cassidy and Senator John Kennedy for their strong support. The CARES Act, the Paycheck Protection Program, the direct support for families would not have been possible without their stalwart support in the United States Senate.Let me also say how grateful we are to Louisianas House Minority Whip, Steve Scalise, for his great leadership, as well as other members of the delegation who have joined us for all of our discussions today Congressman Garret Graves, Congressman Ralph Abraham, and Congressman Mike Johnson.The people of Louisiana would be proud. And President Trump and I are truly grateful for the spirit of partnership with your elected representatives in Washington, D.C., but also with your governor and with this administration. It has  it has truly been inspiring, and were going to continue that partnership every day until  until we put this coronavirus in the past.Let me be clear The rising cases across the Sun Belt are serious, and we are going to continue to ensure that Louisiana and all of the affected states have the testing, the personal protective equipment, and the medicines to save lives, to slow the spread.But while the rise in cases is serious, the people of this state and this nation deserve to know that our ability to respond to this pandemic is substantially better than two and three months ago, when the coronavirus first came to Louisiana.Thanks to President Trumps leadership, thanks to the strong partnership we forged with your governor, the support of these members of the Senate and the House, and the extraordinary healthcare workers here in Louisiana and all across this country, we are in a much stronger position to save lives, to protect the most vulnerable, to flatten the curve, and to continue to open up Louisiana and open up America.Today, we had particular focus on education. And as I said, being here at the LSU campus, were  were grateful for the innovative efforts that LSU and that Louisiana, broadly, are taking to open up our schools.As President Trump has made it clear, as we  to open up America, we got to open up Americas schools. We believe its absolutely in the best interest of students academically and in terms of every aspect of their personal wellbeing to get kids back in the classroom in K12, and to get students back on campuses, like LSU.And as we told the faculty here at this great campus, and we assured the governor today, were going to continue to make the testing and the PPE and the supplies available to support the reopening of schools all across this state and all across this country.Were also going to continue to scale supplies to meet this moment in Louisiana and beyond. And in just the last several days, the Administrator of FEMA, Pete Gaynor, was here in Louisiana. Hell be visiting a local school, Im told, with Congressman Scalise tomorrow.This week alone, at the Presidents direction, FEMA has deployed military medical personnel to some of the states most impacted. And we learned today that Louisiana will be making a request for medical personnel, much like those we provided to Louisiana earlier in this pandemic. And well be moving quickly to respond to that.Weve been distributing medicines like remdesivir. Weve deployed 19 HHS teams to metropolitan areas around the country impacted by this pandemic. Therell be eight more teams deployed in the next several days. And weve been expanding testing and the supplies that support testing.At the present moment, with the great work of Admiral Brett Giroir, as a member of our task force, weve performed more than 40 million tests nationwide, more than  there was a day in just the last week when we actually performed over 800,000 desks sic  tests in a single day. And were  were incredibly inspired by Louisianas innovation from very early on in expanding testing  well above the national average, and well continue to support efforts in that regard.Also, we were pleased to announce that we were unveiling three different surge testing sites in states around the country. One includes four locations in Baton Rouge, including LSUs Alex Box Stadium. Itll be for those with symptoms or those who believe theyve been exposed. And well be doing a quick turnaround on testing. This is part of our community testing and surveillance efforts. And weve already deployed those personnel and resources here in Louisiana.Theres one announcement we informed governors yesterday of that I want to ask Seema Verma, the administrator of the Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services, and Admiral Giroir to step to the podium to describe. Weve often said the first mission of the White House Coronavirus Task Force, at the Presidents direction, was to save lives. Our mission today is to save lives, to slow the spread, to protect the most vulnerable, to open up America and open up Americas schools.But one of the ways that we protect the most vulnerable is by ensuring, as youve done so here in Louisiana, to make sure that those who live in longterm care and nursing home facilities have the testing and the PPE support. And we have a very significant announcement about the deployment of testing resources to our nursing homes, and Id like to invite my colleagues on the White House Coronavirus Task Force to step forward and describe it.ADMINISTRATOR VERMA Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You know, from day one, as the Vice President said, weve had a focus on protecting the most vulnerable citizens, and that includes our nursing home residents. And its been a very difficult time for them  restriction of visitors, restriction of activities. But todays announcement about providing pointofcare tests in every nursing home across the country is very significant.This is going to allow our nursing homes to test their workers on a weekly basis and also test their patients as well. And this is important because when they identify a patient that could be potentially  that is infected with the coronavirus or even a staff member, it allows them to do the important work around isolating that patient. And this is also a significant step forward in reuniting patients with their families, because once we know that the facility is free of the coronavirus, it allows visitors to also come back in. So this is a very important step.And thanks to Dr. Giroir for his efforts to make this happen.THE VICE PRESIDENT Great.ADMIRAL GIROIR Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Administrator Verma. As a native of Louisiana, its always great to be back here, and I really feel just wonderful being here in Tiger Stadium. I did want to say, by any measure, Louisiana, in terms of testing, is in the top 10 states nationally. And by a couple of measures, theyre either number one or number two  not quite good enough for Coach O, but youre going to be there very soon. Laughter.The announcement today is really significant, and let me amplify on Administrator Verma. Its very important to protect our vulnerable. And we know that our elderly in nursing homes are among the most vulnerable, and thats why weve leaned in so heavily with them. In order to protect them, we recommend that the staff be tested once a week to make sure that they dont bring, unintentionally, maybe even without symptoms, the virus into the nursing home. That means 4 to 5 million tests per month. And, as you know, the turnaround times  because theres so much testing  is getting a bit longer, and its also very expensive.What were talking about today is providing a point of care  that means a rapid, onthespot, 20testsperhour instrument, along with tests, to every single of the 15,400 nursing homes within this country. Were starting next week with 2,000 of them, ranked by Administrator Verma and her team, that are at risk because of spread in the community. Seventeen of those are right here in Baton Rouge. Were going to start that next week. This is a very, very significant moment to protect our seniors. Over the following ensuing weeks, were going to distribute to all the rest of the 13,400.Just to make one comment This is not an acquisition. Its not just writing a check and doing it. This has been the culmination of about two months of work to develop the technology to increase the sensitivity of the tests to make sure theyll be highly protective of investments in manufacturing, in regulatory flexibility with the FDA to bring it all together and then, as part of a comprehensive plan, to protect our seniors.So, I tell you, in the last two and a half years, Ive been very honored to be a part of a lot of efforts of this administration. I can tell you this one is going to save thousands of lives. So this is a really historic moment. Its a great moment for our seniors and for those 17 nursing homes in Baton Rouge who will be getting it next week. All hands on deck. Were here to support you.Thank you, Mr. Vice PresidentTHE VICE PRESIDENT Great.So before I turn it over to the governor, let me just  let me just say on behalf of the President and our entire White House Coronavirus Task Force, that Governor Edwards, we support your efforts here in Louisiana to slow the spread, to protect the vulnerable, to keep opening up your economy and opening up your schools.But its important to remember we all have a role to play, so we want to encourage all the people of Louisiana and all those looking on to continue to adhere to the guidance of your state and local health officials. Put into practice those commonsense steps that flattened the curve here in Louisiana before and will slow the spread and flatten the curve again wash your hands, practice good hygiene, wear a mask. Wear a mask whenever state and local authorities say its indicated or whenever social distancing is not possible.Each and every one of us has a role to play. And well be able to continue to open up. Now, Governor, I know you have made a decision to pause reopening, to stay at phase two, and we support your decision in that regard. Well continue to flow testing and PPE and resources to support the implementation of your policy.But I want to assure everyone in Louisiana and all those looking on that were opening up America again, and were dealing with rising cases across the Sun Belt. Its not either or. We dont have to choose between continuing to open up our economy, making plans to open up our schools, and doing what each and every one of us needs to do to slow the spread and flatten the curve. Here in Louisiana, you did it before, and were very confident that you will do it again. Because here in Louisiana, you know what the American people know is that were all in this together.I read a  I read a verse in my devotions this morning that were called to run the race marked out for us with endurance and with faith. And Im confident that with the endurance, the perseverance, and the faith of the people of this great state and this nation, that well every day be one day closer to putting this coronavirus in the past.And we pledge to continue to work with your governor, with your leaders in Washington, D.C., and with all the great healthcare workers of this state to hasten that day.Governor?GOVERNOR EDWARDS Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I want to thank you for visiting Baton Rouge and Louisiana and bringing Ambassador Birx and Administrator Verma with you, as well as Secretary DeVos and Admiral Giroir. And I want to thank our congressional delegation.You know, talking about how were number one or number two, and so forth, in testing, I will tell you It wouldnt be possible without the support weve received from the White House Coronavirus Task Force.And I will tell you that, this week, we will exceed a million tests that weve conducted since the beginning. Were at 248,000 tests, to date, for the month of July, and thats less than halfway through the month. And thats critically important. But what the tests are telling us is we have more cases, we have rising positivity, and certainly we know from our hospitals that we have increasing hospitalizations as well.And my commitment to the Vice President is the same as it is to the people of Louisiana Were going to do whats required to get back in front of this virus and flatten the curve again, and make sure that we are protecting the most vulnerable, that we are saving lives. And the way that we can reopen our economy, reopen our schools are to do those things that are essential to make sure that we can be successful. And its  its really pretty simple at this point.We dont want to go backwards to phase one or to phase zero. So we can  we can continue in phase two, but we are going to have to make sure that we wear the mask, that we social distance, that we limit our social gatherings in terms of the number of people. And if we will do that, were going to be successful, and we dont have to go  to go back. And we are going to open our schools and so forth.And everything were going to do, were going to do in consultation with the CDC guidelines, the guidance thats put out by the White House Coronavirus Task Force, and certainly working with our own professionals here at the Office of Public Health. And were going to work with all of our local officials and the health community here, because they have been the true heroes.And were going to be successful. We are going to get back on top of this. Were going to flatten the curve. And we look forward to the day, as the Vice President mentioned  he and President Trump are working  that we put this virus behind us. And were going to work extremely hard.And, please, Mr. Vice President, know we appreciate your visit. I appreciate the attention youve paid to this state, to the time that youve given personally to speak with me anytime that I called, and for all of the assistance that we have received. Our state is much better off today because of that assistance and because of your work and the work of your task force and our congressional delegation.And while I know we have a lot of work to do ahead of us, I am optimistic that were going to get it done, and were going to come through this in fine fashion. And Im also praying for that result as well. I believe in prayer, and I believe in work, and were going to do both here in Louisiana because thats what weve done as long as weve been a state.So I want to thank you again for being here. And I believe, at this point, were going to hear from our senior THE VICE PRESIDENT Inaudible. Dr. Birx.GOVERNOR EDWARDS Im sorry. Dr. Birx. I was going to say senior citizen, but shes not a senior citizen. Laughter.DR. BIRX No, you had that right.GOVERNOR EDWARDS Thank you very much, Ambassador.DR. BIRX You had that right, Governor. Thank you, governor. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you to our senators, our congressional members here today. And thank you to Courtney Phillips and her public health team.The epidemic youre facing today in Louisiana is different than the epidemic that you had in March and April that was very much centered in New Orleans and a little bit in Baton Rouge.This particular epidemic, although the cases are still low, is spread across the state of Louisiana. And thats why the Governor is correct It will take everyone in Louisiana, every single person in Louisiana, to wear a mask. It will take all of those residents to social distance, to practice personal hygiene.And as Coach O has explained to me, he was able to keep his football players safe and healthy and well here, and tested, until some might have wandered off to a bar. And after wandering off to a bar, they did become positive. And so hes made it clear that that is not on, any longer, the itinerary for practice.And so we are really calling on all Louisianans to not be going to bars, not to be even going to bars in peoples houses. Social gathering of more than 10 people right now is particularly difficult with the type of spread that you have. But it is this public health group and this governor who was able to stop a very serious epidemic in New Orleans.And its why these cases are still low that we have the opportunity to change the future for Louisiana and be able to decrease the number of cases every day if each of us wear our masks, stay out of bars, make sure you dont have large gatherings in your households, and really protect one another, and do what we always have said protecting the most vulnerable in all age groups that may have comorbidities because of their higher risk of severe disease.Thank you, Mr. Vice President.SENATOR CASSIDY I will speak as a physician who happens to be a doctor. And I compliment  one, I thank you all for being here. I compliment you for recognizing that this is a public health crisis, which has led to an educational crisis, which has led to an economic crisis, which has led to an employment crisis, a family crisis, if you will. And we only get out of the economic, the educational, the employment, the family crisis if we do something about the public health crisis.Now, theres a lot to be said about that, but Ill just give the local inflection today that I was particularly proud of LSU and Southern spoke about their partnership, about how they would wish to safely reopen their schools so their children  the students can come back and graduate, but not just that recognizing that some of the risk factors for having a worse episode of coronavirus infection  the obesity, diabetes, hypertension, minority race  are represented in our state.We have the ability to not only keep our state healthier, but to learn lessons that will benefit the rest of the nation and the rest of the world. And that will be our unique contribution to unraveling the public health crisis, which therefore makes the education, the employment, the employer, and all other aspects of this that much better.So again, Mr. Vice President and your team Thank you for coming. And we, in Louisiana, just look forward to working with you for those solutions.THE VICE PRESIDENT Thank you, Senator.SENATOR KENNEDY As I have said repeatedly today, Vice President Pence has been a powerful partner to President Trump, and he honors us with his presence today, as do  as does each member of his entire team. Ive gotten to know Mike Pence well. He has been a rock, and he has been a rockstar for the American people.Second and final point Germany, France, Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Austria, South Korea, Japan, even Vietnam, for Gods sakes, have opened their schools, and theyve done so safely. And so can America and so should America.We have lost 30 precious lives to the coronavirus of kids under the age of 15, and that is 30 too many. But the point is Our kids dont seem to be as susceptible to the virus as adults. If we used our head, we can open our schools safely. I can promise you that not opening our schools will do our children so much more harm than the coronavirus ever can.In Louisiana, for many of our children, our schools are the most stable things in their lives, and thats what we need to work hard on every single day.Finally, our universities can help us. All of our universities in Louisiana are going to be open this fall. Our public labs have done a wonderful job. Our private labs have done a wonderful job. Many of our university labs have done a wonderful job. But Im going to challenge our universities today, right here in Louisiana and elsewhere Step up to the plate. Help us do more testing. Thatll get  help us get elementary and secondary education back on its feet.Once again, thank you, Mr. President, and thank you to your entire team. And to the governor, I want to thank all of them for giving so much to Louisiana and to America.THE VICE PRESIDENT Please, Congressman.REPRESENTATIVE SCALISE Well, I want to really welcome Vice President Mike Pence to Tiger Stadium. As an Indiana Hoosier, we appreciate that hes come here today. But Vice President Pence has been here every time weve needed him. The Trump administration, top down, every time theres been  whether its a shortage of PPE, additional relief packages  the Trump administration and this task force led by Vice President Pence have been nonstop working to make sure that we have the things that we need to continue to confront this pandemic.Its still out there, but we also know that weve got to start safely reopening, as Governor Edwards has led the way to show that we can open our schools that we have to open our schools. Its not a question of whether or not the schools will reopen its how best to safely reopen.And todays roundtable was really informative, as we saw the heads of the LSU system, the Southern System, student body president representing the University of Louisiana system talking about the importance of safely reopening schools. Its got to be our challenge to ensure that were there for our kids to make sure that they can go back to school and they can go back in a safe way. Its not the same thing to be taught at home.Not only do they need that instruction, but weve seen psychiatrists giving studies, weve seen pediatrics studies that have shown the damage it causes to our kids not being in school. So its our challenge to make sure that we put the protocols out there to safely reopen. And I appreciate Vice President Pences leadership in doing that.And I also want to thank the Vice President and his whole team. Of course, Admiral Giroir, good to see you back here in Louisiana, but youre doing a great service to our nation. And CMS Administrator Seema Verma  what they just announced today, dont underestimate how important that is. When you look at the crisis and the deaths Over 40 percent of Americas deaths from coronavirus have happened to seniors in nursing homes. They represent less than 1 percent of Americas population, yet account for over 40 percent of the deaths. And as weve dug into the data to find out who to protect and how best to protect people all across the country, we know the most vulnerable. And the fact that theyre going to be putting these testing facilities into every nursing home in America is a revolutionary breakthrough.What youve done with Operation Warp Speed to find cures, to find vaccines, the testing thats being done today, and the red tape thats being removed by agencies like the FDA, I cant thank President Trump and Vice President Pence enough for their efforts to lead us through this so that we ultimately find a vaccine, find a cure. But in the meantime  and, by the way, over 70,000 vials of remdesivir that have been allocated to Louisiana from the National Stockpile thank you for that, Mr. Vice President  but were going to continue working at warp speed to address this.But its critical that we reopen our schools, and I appreciate the conversation we had here today to get that done, Mr. Vice President.THE VICE PRESIDENT Thank you. Thank you, Steve. And before we go to questions, Id like the Secretary of Education, Secretary Betsy DeVos, to step forward. She has literally been traveling the country, working with states and school systems around America to get our kids back in the classroom.Madam Secretary.SECRETARY DEVOS Well, thank you, Mr. Vice President, and thank you so much for convening us here today, for your and President Trumps leadership during this time. I will just reflect again what so many have said up here in the last few moments that our kids have got to get back to school. And its not a matter of if its just a matter of how.There are so many ways that we can think outside of the box how to address specific needs. But as  as has been noted, the question of a childs health is a multidimensional one. And we know that too many kids today have been harmed by being at home these last several months. Their mental wellbeing, their socialemotional growth, and particularly those that are most vulnerable among us have been harmed by not being able to continue their learning and continue to be in classrooms with their teachers and their peers.So I know that Americans are a people of great determination and action and cando spirit. And this is a great opportunity for adults to step up and show and demonstrate and model grit and determination to ensure that kids can continue their learning come fall. And I and my team and, I know, this whole administration stands ready to help and support in every way we possibly can. And we look forward to all of the creative solutions that were going to see across this country.So, thank you again, Mr. Vice President, for your leadership of this task force and your and the Presidents continued commitment to the future of this nation.THE VICE PRESIDENT Thank you, Madam Secretary. With that, questions. Weve got time for a few questions before we have to go.Go ahead. Please.