James S. Brady Press Briefing Room205 P.M. EDTMS. MCENANY Hello, everyone. There has been no greater champion for rectifying racial and income disparities in Americas educational system than President Trump.Every child regardless of race, income level, or zip code deserves an equal playing field of opportunity to access the American Dream. Making that goal a reality begins in our schools. The evidence is clear An analysis of 41 major urban areas found that black and Hispanic students made the largest gains in educational access because of school choice, according to a CREDO study.That is why President Trump has been clear in saying in his State of the Union For too long, countless American children have been trapped in failing government schools. To rescue these students, 18 states have created school choice in the form of Opportunity Scholarships. The programs are so popular that tens of thousands of students remain on a waiting list. Now I go  I call on Congress to give 1 million American children the same opportunityPass the Education Freedom Scholarships and Opportunities Act, he said, because no parents should be forced to send their child to a failing government school.Well, now, if Democrats have their way, children will not have access to schools at all. And that is not acceptable to President Trump. President Trump continues to fight for equal opportunity in our schools by boldly and firmly underscoring the absolute necessity of Americas schools to reopen this fall. The data is clear Sustained school closures hurt students who have fewer resources the most.McKinsey and Co. created these models  I have some graphs for you  to estimate the potential impact of school closures, and they found this, quote How much learning students lose during school closures vary significantly by access to remote learning, the quality of remote instruction, home support, and the degree of engagement.As you can see in this chart, students who experience averagequality remote learning progress, but at a slower pace students who are getting lowerquality remote learning stagnate at current grade levels and students who are not getting instruction at home lose significant ground with some students dropping out altogether.As you can see in the three scenarios mapped on this graph, if students return to school in the fall, the disparities are far less than if they return in January of next year or the fall of next year, where disparities and learning are enormous.But school closures affect more than just learning. As the NAACP has pointed out, For students of color at all levels across the country, school closings create problems even more urgent than the interruption of their educations. Schools also serve as a community nexus for food and for housing.Rest assured that President Trump knows more than anyone the importance of opening our schools, which is why he has been the most vocal advocate for reopening. And President Trumps America  make no mistake that he will continue to be the biggest fighter for equal opportunity in our schools and continued access to the American Dream for all.And with that, Ill take questions.