James S. Brady Press Briefing Room437 P.M. EDTMS. MCENANY Hello, everyone. Good afternoon. Today, President Trump welcomed to the White House President Lpez Obrador of Mexico. The meeting reaffirmed the incredibly strong ties between President Obrador and President Trump. The leaders noted that many people have bet against their ability to work together in a strong and productive fashion. But rest assured, they work together, and they work together well. The U.S.Mexico relationship has never been stronger or more productive, thanks to the leadership of President Trump.The USMCA, in particular, is a major win for our two countries and for Americas workers. Under the U.S.Mexico Canada Agreement, more than 4 million man  manu  excuse me, more than 4 million manufacturing jobs will be regained that were lost under NAFTA. This will be a huge influx of American jobs that were lost under the failed NAFTA trade deal that went into effect.In addition, tens of thousands of manufacturing plants were lost because of NAFTA we want to bring those on shore. And the USMCA will go a long way in bringing back those manufacturing plants and those millions of jobs that were lost under NAFTA.NAFTA was a bad deal for the American worker because it left American workers behind. Many politicians forgot the damage wrought by disastrous trade deals such as NAFTA, but President Trump did not forget. It took this President to change the status quo, renegotiate NAFTA, and secure a better deal for the American worker.And heres why The USMCA alone will create 176,000 American jobs. We believe the other trade deals that this President has negotiated will add to that number and help undo a lot of what NAFTA has done. The USMCA will boost American manufacturing, including wages, new jobs, and exports. And the USMCA will create 76,000 auto manufacturing jobs, crucial to the wellbeing of this country.The USMCA is good for business, as President Trump rebuilds the strongest, most inclusive economy in history. The USMCA will help jumpstart our economy. The USMCA is projected to increase GDP by 235 billion. This means jobs, jobs, jobs.And during todays meeting between the presidents, one official from Mexico noted that many considered the USMCA an 8020 probability. Now, it is 100 percent certainty.And with that, Ill take questions. Yes.