Department of EducationWashington, D.C.1141 A.M. EDTTHE VICE PRESIDENT Well, good morning all. The White House Coronavirus Task Force met today, here at the Department of Education, as part of our ongoing effort to focus on a mission to save lives, meet the needs of our states and our healthcare workers, to protect the vulnerable, and to safely reopen America and reopen Americas schools.As you will hear today from Admiral Brett Giroir, at this point, we have tested more than 39 million Americans. Among those, more than 3 million Americans have tested positive and more than 1.3 million Americans have recovered. Sadly, more than 133,000 Americans have lost their lives, and our sympathies are with all of the impacted families.And while we mourn with those who mourn, because of what the American people have done, because of the extraordinary work of our healthcare workers around the country, we are encouraged that the average fatality rate continues to be low and steady. And at days earlier this week, it was actually 90 percent lower than at the height of this pandemic.Again, its a credit to the sacrifices the American people have made, to the extraordinary work that our healthcare workers are doing. And we pledge that this task force, working in partnership with governors all across the country, is going to continue to work our hearts out 24 hours a day to continue to keep our losses low.In just a few moments, Dr. Deborah Birx will outline the data that were seeing around the country. Were tracking literally state by state, county by county. But as she will describe in a moment, were actually seeing early indications of a percent of positive testing flattening in Arizona and Florida and Texas. Governors in each of those states have taken strong steps to flatten the curve. And again, as Dr. Birx will describe, were beginning to see early indications that positivity is flattening, and in Arizona and Florida, were beginning to see declining numbers of emergency room visits as well.We believe the takeaway from this for every American, particularly in those states that are impacted, is Keep doing what youre doing, because were starting to see the first indications that as we were able to do in the Northeast, as we were able to do in New Orleans and Louisiana and Michigan and other places around the country, were putting into practice those mitigation efforts and were beginning to see indications that they are having a good effect.We are focused on the states where more than half of the new cases have arisen  Texas, Arizona, Florida, and California  and have received encouraging reports even through this morning strong supplies of PPE in hospitals hospital capacity remains strong.The one need that we did hear from governors across the region is for personnel. And over the last week, working through FEMA, the Department of Defense, and HHS, weve been processing requests to deploy over 1,070 doctors and nurses and medical personnel. At this point, roughly 525 doctors and nurses are on the ground in Arizona, California, and Texas, and were processing a request from Florida for an additional amount.Weve made it very clear as we  if youll recall, we deployed, at the Presidents direction, activeduty military medical personnel to New York, to New Jersey, to Connecticut, to Michigan, to Louisiana, and were in the process of doing that again just to make sure that those dedicated doctors and nurses and healthcare workers have the relief that they need as we see cases rising in various communities across the Sun Belt. And well continue to work that.We had a conference call yesterday with the nations governors. We are in the process of continuing to send, every week, detailed countybycounty summaries, analysis, and recommendations to governors that are being  that are being implemented and well received.We also are issuing renewed guidance on preservation and reuse of PPE. Again, what were hearing, in not just speaking to governors but talking directly to hospitals, is that, frankly, because of the historic effort that President Trump implemented to spin up hundreds of millions of supplies of gloves and masks and face shields and  as well as the construction of ventilators  we now have 59,000 ventilators in our supplies  PPE, we hear, remains very strong, but were encouraging healthcare workers to begin now to use some of the best practices that we learned in other parts of the country to preserve and to reuse the PPE supplies.So our focus is to make sure our states have everything they need, when they need it. And were working closely with all the governors to make that a reality. But what brings us to the Department of Education is, as we  as we see to the needs of our states and we focus on the healthcare of the American people, were working to reopen America and to reopen Americas schools.And yesterday, President Trump convened a summit of education leaders and health officials at the White House. And as the President made clear yesterday Its time. Its time for us to get our kids back to school. And the summit yesterday gave us an opportunity to outline and to learn what we might be able to do then.In just a few moments, Im going to ask Secretary DeVos to talk about the approach the Department of Education is taking to assisting local communities and states in bringing their schools back online. And also, well hear from Dr. Bob Redfield, who has been literally, since early in this pandemic, providing guidance to schools and will be issuing additional guidance next week.I wouldnt want to pass the opportunity, though, not just as Vice President but as someone whos been married to a school teacher now for 35 years, just to say  to say thank you to all the teachers out there. From early in this pandemic, teachers learned how to do the distance teaching and did a remarkable job, oftentimes having to care for their own families and make sure their own childrens studies were happening. So to all of our  Americas teachers, we say thank you.We also want to say thank you to the parents  the parents who had to step in and become educators for all of their kids. Its really been remarkable when you see what our kids have been able to accomplish during this difficult time.But what we heard again yesterday from education officials and what we heard from the American Academy of Pediatrics Its absolutely essential that we get our kids back into a classroom for inperson learning. We cant let our kids fall behind academically, but its important that the American people remember that for children that have mental health issues, for special needs children, for nutrition for children in communities facing persistent poverty, the school is the place where they receive all those services.And so this is not just simply about making sure our kids are learning and theyre advancing academically, but for their mental health, for their wellbeing, for their physical health, for nutrition. We got to get our kids back to school.And as you heard the President yesterday and even again this morning, were absolutely determined to work in partnership with our states to give the guidance for states and communities to be able to safely reopen our schools. The CDC will be issuing new guidance next week  part of a fivepart series of recommendations that will give allnew tools to our schools.But what Dr. Redfield made clear yesterday Im sure hell make clear again today, is Were here to help. We dont want federal guidance to be a substitute for state and local laws and rules and guidance. Were here to assist with the shared objective that I think is shared by every parent in America, which is we want to get our kids back. We want to get them back in the classroom. We want to get our teachers back in the front of those classrooms. We got to get our kids learning, in person, once again.As Congress is still in recess but will gather again soon, we already are in discussions about additional potential support, although we were able to remind governors that 13.3 billion is available in the CARES Act for states, to be able to assist them as they roll out and restart schools across the country.At the present moment, we learned yesterday that only 1.5 percent of those funds has been drawn down by states, and we encouraged the governors to take advantage of that.Our objectives, as I said, are to save lives, meet the needs of our states and their healthcare workers, protect the most vulnerable, and safely reopen America, and safely reopen our schools.And the good news is we are  we are reopening America. The jobs report last Thursday spoke for itself Nearly 5 million jobs created. And I can tell you, evidence all around the country is that the American people are finding a way to do their part to put the health of their neighbors first, even while we all find a way to get back to work, to worship, and to school.And we all have a role to play to slow the spread, to protect the most vulnerable, and to safely reopen our country and our schools. And so I would just  I would just close, before I turn the podium over to Dr. Birx for her report, just simply to say thank you to the American people. Thank you for what youve done so far. Thank you for the way youve put the health and wellbeing of not just family members and friends, but strangers  people you didnt even know  first.And we just encourage you to keep doing what youre doing Keep heeding the guidance of state and local authorities. Practice good hygiene. Wash your hands. Wear a mask wherever state and local authorities determine its indicated, or wear a mask where you cant engage in social distancing.This is the role each of us can continue to play, and were seeing some early indications in some of the most impacted states that Americans are doing just that. So we want to encourage you on and tell you that were going to continue to do our part.And Im just absolutely confident  just as we proved when this pandemic was striking so deeply in the Northeast, when it was striking in Louisiana and in Michigan  the American people know what needs to be done, and we know we can do it.And we flattened  we flattened the curve before, we slowed the spread before, and we can do it again. But weve got to all do our part, and well do it together.With that, Dr. Deborah Birx. And then well get a report from Admiral Giroir before we move on to other reports.Dr. Birx?DR. BIRX Thank you, Mr. Vice President. If I could have the first slide, please. And I know some of you do watch what I wear, so Im wearing this specially today. This came from the Salt River tribe. I just want to  masks can be a fashion statement.And I want to thank the Salt River tribe. It was a real pleasure to be out and speaking to individuals around the United States about the issues that theyre facing with COVID19, to be able to meet with communities, hospital personnel, African American communities, Hispanic communities, and our inaudible tribal nations. That was a privilege last week.I want to start with Arizona, just to pick up where the Vice President left off. That orange line is the number of tests performed, and the blue line is the test positivity. Now, this is at the level of the state. And Arizona does have three counties that were tracking very closely, obviously you know that the largest one being Phoenix and Maricopa County. But this does show that the blue line, which is a fiveday  a sevenday average  and thank you to the data team for these wonderful slides  the five  the sevenday average is showing some flattening, and we find that encouraging.Also equally encouraging at this point  because we know that the testpositivity rate is the first thing to increase, and were hoping that it heralds a stability in Arizona of at least reaching a plateau in their curve.The red line represents the emergency room visits for any of the COVIDlike symptoms. And this is also an early indicator, and we find that encouraging.The next slide does show the counties that were tracking. Obviously, the largest county being Maricopa County with the largest number of infections, but clearly theres issues in Yuma and Pima.The Vice President mentioned the weekly reports that go to governors. This is what the report looks like. It inaudible their fullside pages.This is Alaskas. On the front page is our interpretation of what were seeing, relevant to their epidemic, with specific recommendations related to where we see them, as far as being in a danger zone. They are coded by yellow and red. And it follows that they see everything youre seeing on that first report in boxes  warning boxes  and then each of the counties are represented so that they have, in one place, five pages from the White House and task force that summarizes what were seeing. And that goes out weekly.Next slide, please.This looks at Florida, and you can see, in the same way, the red line  early suggestions of decreasing emergency room visits for the symptoms of COVID and some stability starting in that blue line. Hoping that heralds stability in the number of daily reported cases.We also understand that we went through a holiday weekend, and holiday weekends can impact datas on both ends underreporting through the weekend and then catchup reporting on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday after a holiday weekend.Next slide.This shows the counties of Florida that were tracking. These are the top 10 counties in Florida, and you can see each of them have a different profile.I want to call your attention to the counties that are across the bottom there that are more difficult to see. Some of those represent Jacksonville and other large metros, including Tampa. When the governor talks about how they were steady and low for a long period of time after reopening, this is where that is reflected for almost five weeks after reopening. Clearly, there was something that happened though. And those that were looking into across the board  because whatever happened in Florida happened across the Sun Belt, and that all of the curves and all of the findings are mirrored.If you remember early on in March and April, we were talking about, first, the New York metro, followed by Boston, followed by Philadelphia, then Chicago  and New Orleans was with the New York metro. And so it was a series of individual curves.In this case, whatever occurred occurred almost simultaneously across the South. And so were investigating that very closely to really see the etiology behind that because that can help us as an early warning signal, but also help us in guidance to the American people of what were asking them to do.Next slide.Texas. And you can see Texas is in a similar situation with their blue line. And were watching this very closely across Texas.Next slide.But I think all of you know that there is a series of major metros in Texas with significant increase in cases from Houston to Dallas to San Antonio to El Paso and McAllen area. And so the governors get this type of report with specific recommendations.And then, finally, California, where you can see  next slide, thank you  again, a long time of stability, but then this increase in the number of test positives and rapid increase in cases.Next slide.And you can see the majority of the issue is in the Los Angeles area, although we see this through Riverside, Imperial, Sacramento, and now San Francisco with increased number of cases.So I want to finish with where the Vice President started about the sacrifices of the American people. Because in that recommendations are very clear recommendations that when you have a county with these types of cases, we are recommending everyone using a face covering. And I think the studies now that have been done, showing that cotton face coverings work, that does open up the ability for us all to have individualized face coverings that express our personality.But in addition, I think the work that these governors have done to  and ask the American people is its stop going to bars, to close the bars, to move to outdoor dining, to decrease indoor  any kind of indoor gatherings again. To all of the Americans out there that are in these four states and the states that have  in the report, were in the red zone  because theres a series of other states that we have in that zone  is really asking the American people in those counties and in those states  in those states to not only use the face coverings  not going to bars, not going to indoor dining  but really not gathering in homes either and decreasing those gatherings back down to our phase one recommendation, which was 10 or less.So, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.THE VICE PRESIDENT Admiral, report on testing.ADMIRAL GIROIR Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Since were bragging on our face coverings, this was made by a small religious community in Pennsylvania, who were helped by the Public Health Service, and they hand sewed these for a lot of our officers to match our operational dress  those blue uniforms. So, I wear this proudly, and I think of that community every single day  everybody pitching in across America to help us all.So, in terms of testing, I want to cover three quick topics. First one is just where we are numerically. The Vice President has already said, we are now topping 39 million tests across the country. The states really crushed their goal in June. The state goals was about 12.9 million in June CDC numbers have finalized that at about 16 and a half million tests for June. So, congratulations to almost all of the states who made their goal and exceeded their goal.Were doing very well right now, between 6 and 700,000 tests per day. We did top the 700,000 mark last week, and were averaging about 620630,000 tests per day. We continue to ship. We are ripe with swabs and media. So the states tell us what they need. We work with them to set those goals, based on their state testing plans.After technical assistance by the CDC and my office, FEMA ships those every week. Now thats along with ASPR  the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response  at HHS. So thats sort of the overall general view.We announced, yesterday, what we talked about a little bit last week, and that is federal surge sites. We opened these in three communities. There was a list of communities identified by Dr. Birx and her team that had certain characteristics of their infection trend, but also met certain characteristics of numerical numbers in isolation that surge testing might have an impact over a short period of time.So our goal, in those communities, is to do at least 5,000 tests per day. And those are in Baton Rouge, Jacksonville, and McAllen  the McAllen in Texas. And we have many other sites that were working with. Again, this is a partnership with the state and local governments to make that happen. Theyre up and running and testing in all three sites. Baton Rouge started yesterday, the other two sites start today, and we already have almost 6,500 appointments already made this morning. So thats going very, very well.The last thing I wanted to talk about is Phoenix. And I dont know if we have the slides for this. I get just a little bit concerned when I hear things in the news, like were doing nothing for Phoenix and the federal government hasnt been doing anything with Phoenix. Because that really is not correct, and it undermines a lot of the things that were doing.Im going to show you some slides. I didnt make these slides up. My team  this was part of a 55slide deck  55slides slide deck just on Phoenix, where we understand the demographics, the health disparities, the income levels, the racial and ethnicity backgrounds, where the tests are done, where the resources are. This is how we really work the issues.So, first of all, were in constant contact with Governor Ducey and his team. His state health officials are outstanding. We not only talk on the calls, but we have frequent calls. And I know Dr. Redfield does this as well, and Ambassador Birx does this as well.Number two, we provide support according to the state plans. Just in the last two months, weve shipped over 500,000 swabs and media to the state to fulfill their plans.In terms of Phoenix  if I can get the first slide back, please  I just want to say that, yes, we have lots of support in Phoenix. This is the communitybased testing locations. I didnt decode this because its right out of my slide deck. Phoenix has three federally funded retail sites. This is paid on a percapita basis. You come up and get a test. These sites  not these three sites, but this overall program has tested just under a million individuals, and theyre located specifically in communities of high social vulnerability. We have three there.We also have 13  what we call 3.0 sites. These are retail pharmacies that, because of our regulatory flexibility, they can do that without a federal stipend or grant. They do this just through the insurance Medicare and Medicaid billing system. So, those are 16 federal sites we have in Phoenix.Next slide.I dont know if theres a map to go with that, but under the leadership of Secretary Azar, weve really surged into FQHCs  Federally Qualified Health Centers. This is where you really want testing to happen because these are medical homes for those who are indigent and underserved. We have 28 FQHCs sites performing testing just in the Phoenix area right now.Next slide.We dont have that slide, but let me talk about  weve also identified every single testing machine in Phoenix. So there are testing machines to do tens of thousands of tests per day. And were sending at least 100,000  okay, maybe itll come up, maybe it wont, but at least 100,000 assays to the Phoenix area every week.So these are all the things were doing in the background, that happen on a regular basis, that we do community by community by community.Now, two days ago, I heard that Mayor Gallego was unhappy because there was no federal support. I heard that on Monday  on Monday morning. I was on the phone with the FEMA representative in the afternoon. It was clear to me that Phoenix was not in tune with all the things that the state were doing. We convened a call last night, where we had Governor Duceys people on the phone, where we had the mayors people on the phone, where we had various health officials on the phone. We got everybody together, understood where the gaps are. Theres a surge from Arizona State. There are a surge in testing sites that are state testing sites in Phoenix that are up there.And this morning, Governor Ducey looked at everything, thought a surge site would be helpful in west Phoenix. He requested that, and were contracting that right now.So I just wanted to give you that example because it really pains me when somebody says the federal government isnt doing anything, when we have 41 federal sites there. Were sending supplies, were sending tests. And we work with the governor every day. And if theres an appropriate request and its on the list for Dr. Birx, which it was, we will send a surge site. And thats what were doing were contracting that this afternoon.Thank you.THE VICE PRESIDENT Good job, Brett. Thank you, Admiral Giroir.As we said, the focus today is on safely reopening our schools. And as we discussed yesterday at the White House summit, from very early in this process, the Centers for Disease Control has been issuing guidance for schools and for childcare services, in early March  March the 12th, to be specific. And when we first published the 15 Days to Slow the Spread and encouraged people to engage in schooling from home, wherever possible, from that point forward, CDC has published decision trees about how schools can begin to develop reopening plans, and just last week, published new guidance for K12 schools.But next week, as Dr. Redfield can elaborate in a few moments, theyll be issuing five new documents thatll range from preparing communities to return to school safely, to decisionmaking tools for parents and caregivers, and to create symptom screening considerations as children and teachers return to school.But as we made clear yesterday, well make clear again today Were here to help. And none of the CDCs recommendations are intended to replace state and local rules and guidance that what weve made clear to governors and to state and local health officials is CDC stands ready to work with local officials as they tailor their plan for reopening their schools. But were all committed to getting our kids back in the classroom and getting them back in the classroom this fall.With that, I want the Secretary of Education to reflect on the efforts shes making here at the Department of Education, then well hear from Dr. Redfield, and then a few wrapup comments from Secretary of HHS before we go to questions.Madam Secretary?SECRETARY DEVOS Thanks, Mr. Vice President. Thank you so much, Mr. Vice President. Thanks for hosting the task force here today. We are so grateful to the President and to you for your leadership on doing whats right for students.Yesterday we had a really good and important conversation at the White House with local leaders and great teachers and parents. It was insightful and inspiring. And as Mrs. Pence noted, these past few months, parents have worn multiple hats. They really are our unsung heroes, and I might add, as the Vice President noted, as are the teachers who were often playing dual roles as parents themselves and continuing to help their students learn.She also said  Mrs. Pence also said that as we reopen businesses, restaurants, theaters in our country, we simply cant leave out our schools, and that is so correct. Students can and must continue to learn fulltime.Ive been really inspired by the innovative teachers, schools, and their communities that have kept learning going through this past few months, and theyre getting ready to do it again this fall.A couple of great examples in Harlem and the surrounding boroughs in New York Success Academy moved to distance learning in one week, using multiple technology platforms. Teachers there insisted on learning new materials, right along with their students. The students were still graded. They made sure all the students had the needed tech that they did not maybe have at home, initially.MiamiDade County used its existing instructional continuity plans to make a seamless transition to distance learning. They added interventions for students who were struggling already before the pandemic.The International Leadership Academy in Texas started from the mindset that not learning wasnt an option for any student. They delivered multilingual and special education curriculum to all of their students. There were a number of schools and districts across the country that did an awesome job of transitioning this spring. And there were a lot in which I and state school leaders were disappointed in that they didnt figure out how to continue to serve their students. Too many of them just gave up.The Center for Reinventing Public Education said that only 10 percent across the board provided any kind of real curriculum and instruction program.And, as I said, Ive talked to all of the state school chiefs at least once, most of them more than once, and theyve told me that while many of their districts in their states have done well through the past several months, a number of them, they were very disappointed in, in doing next to nothing.And then we see as we talk about reopening schools, there are some creating false paradigms for the fall. And here, right in our neighborhood, the D.C. area, Fairfax County, which is one of the most wellfunded  I would call it an elite public school system in America  offered families a socalled choice for this fall either zero days in school for their students or two days. And their springtime attempt at distance learning was a disaster. I have to  I give this as an example because things like this cannot happen again in the fall. It would fail Americas students, and it would fail taxpayers who pay high taxes for their education.Ultimately, its not a matter of if schools should reopen, its simply a matter of how. They must fully open, and they must be fully operational. And how that happens is best left to education and community leaders.I really appreciate something that Secretary Azar reiterated yesterday at the White House. Its the Surgeon Generals prescription for healthcare, and Im going to repeat it again because it bears repeatingFirst, ask yourself whats your individual circumstance. Are you or is someone in your home vulnerable? Second, whats going on in your community? Is the virus widespread or is it isolated? And third, think about the kind of school activity that youre talking  that youre thinking about how to how to accommodate and deal with.What needs to be in place for things to be successful Education leaders need to examine real data for their own states and communities and weigh the risks. Local leaders in every community need to ask these questions and consider all the risks. Physical health and safety are factors  so is mental health so is social emotional development and importantly, very importantly, so are lost opportunities for students, particularly the most vulnerable among us and students with disabilities.The American Academy of Pediatrics noted Keeping schools closed places children and adolescents at considerable risk of morbidity and, in some cases, mortality. The Pediatrics guidance concluded that everyone should start with a goal of having students physically present in school. Fully open and fully operational means that students need a full school year or more, and its expected it will look different depending on where you are.Whats clear is that students and their families need more options. Ive talked a long time about the need to rethink education and the  to expand education options for all students. This moment really demands action, and America always was, and is, and always will be a country of doers.We are confident that with grit and determination and a measure of grace, we can and will do whats right for all the students in our nation. Thanks very much.THE VICE PRESIDENT Dr. Redfield.DR. REDFIELD Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First and foremost, I want to make it very, very clear that the guidance that CDC continues to put out for schools K12 and higher learning is intentional for reopening and keeping our schools open. Thats its purpose. We recognize that theres a variety of unique circumstances for different schools and different school districts, and so weve outlined a number of strategies that those schools, those administrators can use to accomplish this goal safely.But I want to make it very clear that what is not the intent of CDCs guidelines is to be used as a rationale to keep schools closed. Were prepared to work with each school, each jurisdiction to help them use the different strategies that we propose that help do this safely so they come up with the optimal strategy for those schools.I think its critical  and it would be, personally, very disappointing to me and, I know, my agency  if we saw that individuals were using these guidelines as a rationale for not reopening our schools.I think theres a series of different additional guidelines that we are about to put out to help, really, with the K12 community, particularly at the community level, to help open safely. Guidelines also that come out were consideration documents for parents and caregivers guidelines for schools to help them understand how best to do symptom surveillance and characterize symptoms in the schools as a tool and guidelines to really work out how  and the ins and outs of using face mask in the school setting as well as, finally, some guidance and to help the schools have systems which they can monitor their programs.But I want to close by just reiterating again The purpose of CDCs guidance is  remember, its guidance its not requirements  and its purpose is to facilitate the reopening and the keeping open the schools in this country. Because as the Vice President said, it is critical that we get these schools open and do it safely. Were prepared to work with all the school districts and schools to help them facilitate their development of their own unique plan to accomplish that.Thank you.THE VICE PRESIDENT Thanks, Dr. Redfield. Opening up schools is the right thing to do for our kids so they dont fall behind academically and also so that children that are in need of services  specialneeds children, children with mental health issues, nutrition needs  have the support that they receive at the schools.Its important, though, for parents and for working families. And we  I asked Secretary Scalia to be here from the Department of Labor to speak about the impact on  as we put America back to work, making it possible for us to have single parents back in the workforce, its essential that we get our schools open as well.And so I wanted Secretary Scalia, and then of course Secretary of HHS, to finish our remarks before we go to questions.Mr. Secretary.SECRETARY SCALIA Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Its good to be with you all today. For reasons that Secretary DeVos has mentioned and that the Vice President mentioned, of course, having our schools open is so important to our childrens education. But as the Vice President has said, its very important as well to working men and women across the country who need to be able to structure their workdays in a predictable manner. And the expectation that schools will be open and their children will be able to be in school so that the parents, in turn, can have a predictable schedule that they bring to the workplace, of course, thats important to our business places as well. And in that sense, its really critically important to our national reopening.One study has suggested that if we closed all our schools and daycare for just a month  just, hypothetically, if we did that  the impact on U.S. productivity would be in the order of 50 billion. That gives you some sense of the impact having our schools closed can have on our national recovery.I did want to mention a couple of groups in particular to whom this is very important. First lowerwage workers. One of the great triumphs of the economy that we enjoyed until the virus came was how well lowerincome men and women were doing in the workplace. We, as you know, had unemployment that tied a 50year low. We had record low unemployment for African Americans, Hispanic Americans, and others. And we had rising wages wages actually rose about 15 percent for lowerincome men and women during the first three years of this administration.Unfortunately  and a number of people have observed this  its the lowerincome workers whove been particularly adversely affected by some of the shutdowns that weve had in response to the coronavirus.Unemployment among the lowerincome workers has been higher than for other populations. And therefore, for them, having schools reopen so that they can themselves have predictable schedules, be able to return to the workplace, is going to be very important. They hold jobs that are less likely be jobs by which you can telecommute. I think many of us know that, even telecommuting, there are burdens being placed on mothers, fathers who are getting up a little bit earlier or staying up a lot later to get work done, to plan around caring for their children in the interim. But for lowerincome men and women, that option often is not even available.And then, second, let me comment briefly on working women, who  studies show and I think the experience of many of us reflects that its women in the household who quite often bear the larger burden when it comes to caring for children. Studies show this. And again, prior to COVID, another great success of the economy we were enjoying was the employment rate for women. The unemployment rate for women was actually lower than for men, right before the virus came. But unfortunately  and this is a statistic weve been tracking  we see that the unemployment rate for women now is higher than it is for men.Now, we made great progress in June. The Vice President mentioned the extraordinary jobs report. Weve put seven and a half million Americans back to work in just two months, and the unemployment rate for women dropped nearly 3 percent in June.But still, we have important work to do, and we know that working women will have a harder time getting back to the workplace. They continue to cite childcare at a much higher rate than men do as a reason that theyre not able to work. And so for them, too, reopening our schools will be very important.Look, just to wrap up  and its such an important sense the pace and structure of our national life is built around the expectation that our young people will be in school, in person, during the school year. Thats so important for them, but its also vitally important for their parents, and in that sense, so critical to this reopening that is proceeding very well, economically. But to keep going, we need our schools open in the fall.Thank you very much.THE VICE PRESIDENT Great. Thank you, Gene.Mr. Secretary.SECRETARY AZAR Well, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your leadership of the Presidents allofAmerica approach to combatting the virus and for the focus that youre now putting on getting our kids safely back to school.From HHSs perspective, reopening schools safely may be the singlemost important thing that we can do to support healthy families during this pandemic. All decisions about undertaking activities during COVID19 have to look at risk as a continuum, not a binary question. States and school districts can think about the same things that we urge individuals to think about.As Secretary DeVos noted, our Surgeon General has come out with his prescription for health. Ask yourself three critical questions Where are you? Is there significant community transmission of the virus in your area? Whom are we talking about? Children are much less susceptible to severe outcomes from the virus than adults. And what activities are we looking at?There are more and less risky activities for schools, like keeping kids in the same classroom versus changing classes, avoiding large gatherings, and doing activities outside whenever possible. Reopening schools comes with some risk, but there are risks to keeping kids at home too.At home, kids arent benefitting from social stimulation. They may be falling behind with learning. They may be more vulnerable to abuse that goes unreported by the mandatory reporters in our school system. They may not be getting special services they may need. They may not be getting the nutrition that they get at school. And it may be difficult for parents to get back to work, as Secretary Scalia noted.This issue, like so many considerations around safely reopening, isnt about health versus the economy, but about health versus health. All of this is why the American Academy of Pediatrics has strongly recommended beginning with the goal of having students physically present in school. This goal is the right way to use the extensive guidance that CDC has put out to help each state and school district think through a safe reopening.Last week, we put out guidance around testing for Kthrough12 schools. This guidance, like our guidance for colleges and universities, offers recommendations for how and when students, teachers, and staff should be tested.While CDC does not make a recommendation in favor of universal testing, its a perfectly appropriate surveillance technique where the capacity exists, and capacity is growing all the time. Weve talked with colleges and universities that are able to use their research lab capacity with pooling of multiple samples to test their whole student bodies and staff frequently, thanks to regulatory flexibility that CMS and the FDA have provided.Many of the leaders we heard from yesterday at the White House School Reopening Summit are doing testing before returning to school, and then sentinel surveillance.On top of that, the measures we recommend universally  like keeping a distance, wearing a face covering, and frequent hand washing  are effective and can be applied in the college or the Kthrough12 setting.We put out the CDC guidance to enable and support states and school districts in reopening safely. We want them to use the tools available to reduce risk, and well be putting out more guidance on how schools can use each of these tools, such as face coverings.On top of that, I will reiterate that our set of tools is expanding all of the time. Just yesterday, we signed a new agreement with Regeneron to provide nearly half a billion dollars in support for a promising therapeutic, all the way to manufacturing hundreds of thousands of doses for the American people. The initial doses, pending approval, would be available as soon as the end of this summer or early fall. That is the first of a number of therapeutic agreements that we will do under the Presidents Operation Warp Speed initiative.Promising therapeutics are already being administered every day by our heroic healthcare workers. I want to thank these heroes who continue to put themselves at risk, caring for those suffering from the virus. We know many frontline workers have gotten sick, and we know some have given their lives, including some of my employees in the Indian Health Service, and America is deeply grateful.It is because we are making progress against the virus and learning more about it every day that we can talk about how to bring Americas kids and teachers back to school safely. We have the tools to do it, and it has to be a top priority.So thank you to President Trump and the Vice President for putting such a focus on this very important aspect of our road to recovery. Thank you.THE VICE PRESIDENT Great job. Thank you.Right here. Please.