Center for Advanced Medical Learning and SimulationUniversity of South FloridaTampa, Florida338 P.M. EDTGOVERNOR DESANTIS Well, I want to thank the Vice President. I want to thank Secretary Azar, Dr. Hahn, Dr. Birx for coming down to Florida, and also just for all the help that they provided throughout these many months.You know, we are now in a situation where we are testing a lot more. We also have a greater percentage of people testing positive. I mean, throughout May and early June here in Hillsborough County, for example, I think they were testing at about 3 or 4 percent would test positive. Now, were looking at places like Hillsborough and in Orange County, no longer 3, 4 percent but now 15 percent of folks are testing positive. Obviously when youre testing about 60,000 people a day  were getting results like that over the last week  thats going to generate a lot of additional cases.So we were discussing some of the things that we may be able to do going forward, including pooling, types of testing in conjunction with our universities  which I think will be really, really good. We also spoke with some of the hospital systems here  Tampa General, BayCare  about other ways that we could be helpful.You know, one of the things  if you go back to March when we, kind of, faced the initial wave of this, I mean, we had very few tests relative to what we have now. Now hospitals test  anyone that comes in for something, they can test. You know, we, between the state, were doing 10 to 15 thousand tests a day at all the different sites.There was a question about PPE. Weve got PPE hospitals have it, the state has it. You know, were good to go there. There was no treatment of any kind, really, for this. It was totally novel. The physicians have learned a lot.And then, through Secretary Azar and HHS  I remember coming down, I think at the end of April, to visit Tampa General. They asked about remdesivir. We called Secretary Azar theyve been sending a bunch of the remdesivir down. So the physicians are using that. Theyre using convalescent plasma. And they are having definitely better results.And then we also  even though we took a lot of action early to protect the longterm care facilities  since March, we have increasingly brought on COVIDonly dedicated nursing facilities. And so we now have 12 of these facilities throughout the state of Florida. We have one in Pinellas, one in Polk, which the Tampa Bay hospitals can use and nursing homes can use.And basically, the idea is If you have somebody test positive in a nursing home, you dont want that to spread to the other residents. That individual is medically stable they can be transferred to the COVIDonly facility. If they need hospitalization, obviously they go to the hospital. But if they end up becoming stable while in the hospital, rather than be discharged back to that facility, which would create problems, you have a place to go to be able to discharge that.So all around the state now weve got 750 beds in COVIDonly nursing facilities. And so we just brought one on in Miami. We now have one in Broward, two in Palm Beach, two in southwest Florida, Brevard County, Jacksonville, Escambia, and Tallahassee.So, pretty much anywhere around the state, if you have somebody who is a resident of a longterm care facility, thats in the hospital, thats medically stable but still contagious, you have a place where they can be safely transferred. So we think that thats something thats very, very significant.The message that weve really been sending for folks in Florida I think because we had such a quiet May  because, you know, the positivity was so low, the caseload was so low  it kind of fell out of the news at the end of May, beginning of June, and I think people werent as focused on it anymore. And now, obviously weve seen these cases. So I think people are more focused on it.But basically, the message is, you know, for those folks who are 65 and older, people that have significant underlying medical conditions, you know, do your best to avoid crowds and minimize close contact with people outside your home right now.We have the virus community transmission, particularly with younger people. If you look at where  you go back a month, the median age of our cases was in the 50s. Now the median age of the cases here in Hillsborough County for the entire pandemic has dropped to 34. And therell be days where well get cases in Hillsborough County and the median age will be under 30. In Orange County, the median age for the whole pandemic is now 32. Theres days where itll be 28 and 29. So its been a huge shift.The case growth has really been in that 18 to 34, 35 age group. Now, those are folks that are, by and large, going to be much less prone to significant consequences. Nevertheless, with the increasing positivity rate, its clear that youre seeing more and more community transmission really being driven by that age group.And so if youre someone in one of the medically vulnerable conditions or youre an older person, you know, just understand that thats out there, continue to be vigilant. I think folks in Florida  the seniors  have been very, very vigilant throughout this whole time. We still want to ask people to be able to do that going forward.And then for, kind of, the general public, you know, were telling people to avoid the three Cs you know, closed spaces. In Florida, its hot. People dont want to be outside in 95degree heat. Just understand, if youre getting together in closed spaces with poor ventilation, that is going to be a much better vector for this virus to be able to spread.Were also saying avoid large crowds. Now, we had for a long time a 10person gathering limit. Weve advised, you know, not to do more than 50. But I would say the smaller the group, the better for that.And then also, the close contact. If youre in really close, sustained contact with somebody, youre going to be more apt to see transmission of this virus.So avoid the three Cs. Stay safe and take care of yourself during this holiday weekend.I want to bring up the Vice President just to thank him. He came down, I remember, at the very beginning of this in March. We went down and met with the cruise line folks. Hes always been there to help us as weve needed different things, and, you know, we have needed things from time to time. And so I really want to thank him for being a friend to the state of Florida, being a friend to the people of Florida, and really never leaving this fight.I mean, even as we saw numbers go down across the country in May, you know, now we see a Sun Belt resurgence, and hes been, I think, all over the Sun Belt just in the last few days. So weve already discussed ways that they can help Florida going forward, and I know that theyre going to be able to deliver on that.So I want to  its my, really, honor to be able to welcome yet again to the state of Florida, our Vice President Mike Pence.THE VICE PRESIDENT Well, thank you, Governor DeSantis. Thank you for your leadership. The people of Florida deserve to know that from the very beginning of this pandemic, Governor DeSantis and his healthcare team have formed a seamless partnership with our entire White House Coronavirus Task Force.And whether it be in testing, whether it be in personal protective equipment, whether it be in the distribution of therapeutics like remdesivir, or whether it be in advancing the kind of mitigation efforts that have kept Florida low for a long time until just a few short weeks ago  Governor, I want to thank you. Thank you for your leadership and your partnership.And I want to thank all the people of Florida for all of your efforts over the many months, and to say to each and every one of you, what we said to the Governor today is Were with you. And at President Trumps direction, were going to make sure that your governor and the state of Florida have what you need, when you need it, to meet this moment of rising cases across the state.We really are here to assure the people of Florida that, as we  as we see the rising cases not only in this state but across the Sun Belt, that were going to do whatever it takes to make sure that our extraordinary healthcare workers have the resources and the support and supplies.The Governor and I talked today about personnel, and well be considering a request from the state of Florida about medical personnel that well be processing in very short order.But, Governor, I also want to thank you for your efforts. I want to thank you for your efforts to open up Florida again. We had good news this morning as a nation Nearly 5 million jobs created in the month of June, including many here in the state of Florida. It was the largest onemonth increase in history. And Florida, being an economic engine for the United States, played a key role in that.But I also want to say, Governor, that we fully support your prudent steps in working to slow the spread and the rise in cases that are impacting Florida today.As we said at a task force meeting not long ago, its  and Id say to the people of Florida Its not an eitheror choice. If all of us will put into practice the guidance from state and local officials  which is wash your hands, practice good hygiene, wear a mask when its indicated by local officials, or wear a mask when you can social distance  we know that we can do what Florida did for those many months and what other impacted areas around the country did. We can slow the spread. We can flatten the curve. But itll take all of us to do it. And I just want to reassure you, Governor, that were going to be working with you to make sure that Florida has all the resources.The economic comeback thats underway is a  is a demonstration that we dont have to choose between opening up America and the health of our people. We can do both. And thats the challenge that we face today across the Sun Belt.And we just want to encourage, with great respect, all Floridians to put these principles into practice and know that were going to stay with you every step of the way.I do want to say that were encouraged today to hear a report from the Governor that, particularly in the category of personal protective equipment for healthcare workers, that Floridas hospitals are in good shape. We also are pleased to hear the hospital capacity remains strong in this state.Were informed theres about more than 13,000 total hospital beds available at this time. Availability, 22 percent of hospital capacity. Ventilators, which were an issue before our nation four months ago, at the beginning of this pandemic, are in abundant supply. Were told that theres more than 5,500 ventilators available across the state of Florida.And at President Trumps direction, we worked with companies across the country. Were well on our way to manufacturing 100,000 ventilators in 100 days, and in just a matter of the next two weeks, well have 50,000 ventilators in the Strategic National Stockpile. And should the need arise anywhere here in Florida, we want to assure you, Governor, and all your healthcare workers that the resources will be there.Were also encouraged to hear that personal protective equipment remains in abundant supply in the state. The federal government has shipped literally millions of N95 masks, surgical masks, face shields, gowns, and gloves, but well continue to make sure that those resources flow to the great healthcare systems that we had the opportunity to meet with today.As youll hear in a moment, too, from the director of the FDA, Dr. Stephen Hahn, were also making steady progress in distributing therapeutics, or medicines, to treat people that are suffering the symptoms of the coronavirus. And Im pleased to report to your governor today that, just yesterday, the latest shipment of remdesivir arrived in Florida  34,000 vials of remdesivir thats  that will literally treat thousands of patients in this state.That, combined with other innovative treatments like steroids and convalescent plasma, we literally are  were in a much better place than even two months ago to be able to treat people who have contracted the coronavirus.And I hope that  I hope that that message, more than anything else, comes through today to the people of Florida  is to understand that we are, because of all weve done as a country, because of President Trumps leadership in standing up a wholeofAmerica approach  manufacturing supplies, innovating in testing, developing therapeutics, and well on our way to developing a vaccine  we hope and trust, perhaps even by the end of this year, that we are in a much better place to confront the rising cases that are impacting here in Florida and all across the country.And so I want people to be vigilant, but we want people to be encouraged that were going to make sure your governor and the state of Florida has everything you need to meet this moment and do what Florida has been doing from the very beginning, and that is putting the health of the people of this state first.And let me also say, with great admiration to the people of Florida, that the record of Florida in protecting the most vulnerable is among the best in the nation. And, Governor, your steps  your steps to protect residents of longterm care, to create those COVIDonly facilities, to do the kind of testing thats  the record in Florida really speaks for itself. And we commend you for that, and well continue to support your efforts.Governor, President Trump and I are absolutely committed to supporting your efforts to respond to this outbreak in Florida, to slow the spread, to protect the vulnerable, to get our kids back to school, and to keep opening up our economy.But lastly, let me say to all my fellow Americans all across Florida We all need to do our part, and we once again want to specifically encourage younger Americans in Florida. Its one of the unique things  I was in Arizona yesterday, I was in Texas over the weekend, and as we discussed with your governor, its a truism of this moment in the pandemic that some 50 percent of all the new cases are Americans under the age of 35.And to each and every one of you, let me just say from my heart I know you know that without a serious underlying health condition, that the threat of the coronavirus to younger Americans is very, very low. But no younger American would ever want to put at risk a grandmother, a grandfather, a mom, a dad, an elderly neighbor, or a friend by inadvertently exposing them to the coronavirus.And thats why we encourage you to be vigilant, to heed state and local guidance, and to respect those who are most vulnerable, in particular. And just know that if all of us do our part, well get through this.I cant help but feel that the resilience and the strength and the character of the American people shown forth today, that even in these challenging times, were continuing to see Americas economy coming back and America going back to work.And Im just absolutely confident, if all of us do all that we need to do, well do what weve done before in other parts of the country and what Florida did for so many months We will slow the spread, we will flatten the curve, we will save lives, and we will bring Florida and Americas economy back bigger and better than ever before.With that, Im going to invite to the podium a couple of members of our team. Dr. Deborah Birx has been the White House coordinator, been our lead scientist on all matters. And after her, well hear from the Secretary of HHS briefly, and the head of the FDA, to share with you what we heard today and what were seeing.But, Governor, once again, thank you for your leadership. And to all the people of Florida Were with you, and were going to stay with you until that day comes that we put the coronavirus in the past here in Florida and all across America.Thank you and God bless you.Deb?DR. BIRX Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Its a pleasure to be here with all of you today. And I want to start where the Vice President left off that we all have a critical role to play in the next few weeks.We were watching this area, Tampa, very closely  through March, through April, through May, through your reopening. And for days after days, weeks after weeks, we saw you sitting at 4 percent, which everybody, including the World Health Organization, said is a safe place to be.At end of May, we began to see your numbers increase and go from a very low of 4 percent at the end of May to this high now of 17 percent. So this virus came to Tampa and spread through Tampa sometime along the end of May, and then spread through the asymptomatic groups that dont, as described, get symptoms and constantly spread, and to the point where you have this number of cases today. And we all have a critical role to play over the next two to three weeks to stop that spread.To every Floridian We know what works, in addition to the hand washing and the social distancing, wearing masks, and not having large gatherings inside, not having large gathering outside. But if you participated in a large gathering in the last four weeks, we ask all of you to come forward and be tested because of the level of asymptomatic spread.So were asking for everyone under 40 that, if you were in a gathering, please go and get tested. Please wear a mask. Please do all of the hygiene issues. And please stay away from those who have comorbidities.Of course, the governors and mayors are all acting together to really extend and stay safe for everybody in Florida. But also, the federal government has a role, and thats why it was exciting to be here today to talk to the University of South Florida and your brilliant scientists and physicians here to really start to implement pooled testing. That is our breakthrough that weve been working on for three weeks.We think that Florida and this university and this particular county is a great place to start. How can that be utilized? It can be utilized three ways. One way is going into neighborhoods and testing whole families into a single tube. And then if anybody is positive, you would go back, use your contact tracing to test everyone in the household.It is easy for them to test themselves by just the front of their nose into the transport media, coming back here, working with your research community to run those tests, going back then and testing the positive households and ensuring those that are positive remain quarantined and isolated for the next couple of weeks.Its the role for the federal government to support that enhanced testing. FDA has put out new guidelines to encourage it. We have put guidelines up on the White House website. Theyve been there for three or four weeks, but we really need to act on them and have a partnership, like here today, bringing together community with scientists and the medical field to really take that next step.That can also be used in screening large numbers of school students, because you can put 10 into one tube. So you can do a classroom with retest.This is groundbreaking for putting people back to school and keeping universities open, where you could test an entire dorm probably with 10 to 15 tests, always with the ability to go back and do individual diagnostic tests for the pools that are positive.We think that this is a critical breakthrough. As the FDA continues to bring new testing online, this would allow us to go from 5,000 tests a day to 50,000 tests a day. And for in Florida, that would be a log increase that we could support and continue, and we want to encourage that but we want to work alongside you.And as the Vice President said, of course we are here to support your medical community  and youll hear from Dr. Hahn and Secretary Azar  but were here also as the federal government so that you know that you have our continuous support.There are things that we have to do together as individuals that established this great nation. Its a privilege to wear red, white, and blue today. I dont often get  you only get to do that a couple of times a year, so its a privilege to be here celebrating the birth of our country and asking each American citizen, particularly Floridians, to do the responsible thing of wearing a mask, protecting others.And we, as a state and local, and federal government, will walk beside you and help with all of those innovations to bring us to a different place  lower those cases and stop the spread.THE VICE PRESIDENT Mr. Secretary?SECRETARY AZAR Well, Governor DeSantis, thank you for having us here and for welcoming us again to Florida and for being here in Tampa. Boy, I learned a lot. I learned a lot from the University of South Florida and Tampa General. Got a long list of actions coming out of this really tremendous session that we get so much value from.And thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your leadership of our allofAmerica approach to defeating this virus.I want to begin by thanking the healthcare workers and also the members of the HHS team that are working here in Florida and across the country to beat this virus. They put themselves in harms way every day to help their fellow citizens, and we owe them all a deep debt of gratitude.Thanks to the President and the Vice Presidents leadership over the past several months, we at HHS and across the administration have built a sixpoint, allofAmerica strategy to protect our country from the virus and, in time, defeat it. And in each of these domains, as the Vice President said, we have advanced dramatically over just the last two months. Thats surveillance, testing, containment, healthcare system resilience, therapeutics, and vaccines.Here in Florida, thanks to the strong work by the state, we now have far more ability to track the spread of the virus than ever before. We know that cases are rising quickly in parts of the state, but with the right data, as Dr. Birx said, we can target our approach and respond.To support testing and containment, this week, CDC put out guidance around testing for higher education, as well as for Kthrough12 students.On therapeutics, weve distributed nearly 7,000 remdesivir treatment courses to Florida. And this week, the President secured access to another 500,000 treatment courses of remdesivir over the next three months, which will be allocated based on data that we continue to collect about the virus.Weve put out treatment guidelines for the use of dexamethasone and corticosteroids. And were seeing promising data on the use of convalescent plasma, in terms  in the treatment of tens of thousands of patients. These are three therapeutics that likely have already saved thousands of lives.On vaccines This week, the FDA put out guidance to accelerate progress toward a safe and effective vaccine. Before a vaccine is ready, well be working with states like Florida to plan for what distribution will look like.Now, individuals will have a key role to play in our strategy. You can help protect yourself, your loved ones, and your community by assessing the risks that you face. Just think about three questions First, who am I and whom do I live with? Do age or underlying conditions put me at a higher risk? Second, where am I? Is the virus spreading where I live, and what are the recommendations of state and local authorities where I am? And third, what am I thinking about doing? Going to a crowded indoor place is riskier than an outdoor activity.Practice physical distancing. When you cant keep a distance, wear a cloth face covering. Always practice good hygiene, including hand washing. These simple steps will make it much easier for us as a country to defeat the virus together.So thank you all very much for being here, but thank you for everything that the people of Florida are doing not just to protect yourself and those you live with, but if youre young, as was said earlier by the Vice President, you know the risk to you are quite low. But youre protecting vulnerable people in your household. Youre also protecting the stranger standing next to you in the grocery store line, and you dont know if that person is vulnerable, and you dont want that on your conscience.Practice social distancing, wear face covering, and practice good personal hygiene.Thank you.THE VICE PRESIDENT Thats great. Stephen?DR. HAHN Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your leadership of the coronavirus task force. Its really been remarkable. And, Governor, just, again, a remarkable effort, particularly protecting seniors in your state.So I came to the job as FDA Commissioner after being a cancer doctor for over 30 years. And I know the power of hope, but I also know that false hope can be damaging. And what I saw today, the partnership of Tampa General and University of South Florida, gives me great hope.What I saw was a partnership that developed a care plan that really accelerated and advanced the care of the patients with COVID19  something that were seeing across the country. That is something that gives me great hope for Americans who might be afflicted with COVID19.President Trump asked the FDA to reduce regulatory barriers to getting medical products out to Americans during this time of a public health emergency. And we set up something called the Coronavirus Treatment Acceleration Program. And what weve seen over the last several months is just the incredible American biomedical research engine go forth. We now have a number of therapies that are available for patients, and that also gives me great hope.We have remdesivir, thats been mentioned, which has been shown to reduce the stay of hospitalization in sick COVID19 patients.Weve seen a trial thats shown us that corticosteroids, dexamethasone, and others have the potential for reducing mortality by 30 percent in sick hospitalized patients. And that has been mentioned here. We have convalescent plasma, and convalescent plasma, of course, has been used for years for patients whove had infectious diseases, where you take the liquid protein portion of a blood that has the immunity, the natural immunity from someone whos recovered from COVID19, and you give that to someone whos sick.Weve seen some early encouraging results in 20,000 patients thats been shown to be safe. And we have more than 28,000 patients in the U.S. whove been treated with convalescent plasma. And well get some relatively  well get some news relatively soon on the data on the effectiveness of this.But one thing I want to tell Americans If youve recovered from COVID19, you should contact your local blood bank, the American Red Cross, because this could be lifesaving for someone with COVID19, and it would be great for you to go and to donate and provide that opportunity to someone whos afflicted with the disease.Just a moment to tell you about other things There are 141 clinical trials that are currently ongoing and overseen by the FDA. There are more than 300 applications for therapeutics at the FDA right now. So, again, this great American biomedical research engine continues the pipeline is robust.A little bit about vaccines I want to congratulate Secretary Azar and his incredible leadership of the Operation Warp Speed. In addition to Operation Warp Speed, there are a number of other vaccine manufacturers around the world that have vaccines that are in development. Weve authorized to proceed in clinical trial four vaccines, another six manufacturers are with us with applications, and another a dozen or more are actually talking to us about vaccines.So in, record time, from identification of this virus, which we have to remember occurred in January, we have a vaccine that now is in the middle stages of clinical trials, and we expect two of have them to be in the later stages of trials  phase three trials in July.As was mentioned, we did issue guidance with respect to vaccine development. And one thing I want to assure the American people is that your FDA is on the job. We will not cut corners in our assessment to the vaccine. Our solemn promise to the American people is that we will look at the data associated with the vaccine, and we will make a decision about the safety and effectiveness of that vaccine using our typical high standards.And so we all want, urgently, a vaccine. I think were making really good progress. I am cautiously optimistic, but FDA will be on the job, with respect to assessing its safety and efficacy.Thank you very much.THE VICE PRESIDENT Questions for me, any member of our team, or the Governor? I think weve got a little bit of time. Anyone?