James S. Brady Press Briefing Room 443 P.M. EDT     MS. MCENANY  So I am pleased to inform everyone that Seattle has been liberated.  The Capitol Hill Autonomous Zone, otherwise known as CHAZ  I think they switched their name to CHOP, but Im told they went back to CHAZ  was a failed fourweek Democrat experiment by the radical left.  And the results are in Anarchy is antiAmerican, law and order is essential, peace in our streets will be secured.      While the Democrat mayor of Seattle proclaimed that CHAZ was to be, quote, the summer of love, in fact, it was not.  And other failed Democrat politicians also remained passive, or even silent, in the face of anarchy.  But while that happened, President Trump set the tone Law and order must prevail to preserve peace in our streets.      The President is not the Democrat governor of the state of Washington.  The President is not the Democrat mayor of Seattle.  But, nevertheless, the President must lead by example and be prepared to act in the face of failed Democrat leadership, which is what we saw in Democrat Seattle and Democrat Wisconsin.     President Trump has always stood on the side of law and order, and we are pleased to report that law and order has prevailed, and Seattle has been liberated from the anarchists.     In President Trumps America, autonomous zones will have no sanctuary.  The BHAZ, BHAZ  which stood for the Black House Autonomous Zone, across from the White House  was swiftly dismantled.  One hundred anarchists were arrested for rioting and destruction of federal property here in D.C I believe that number is now above 300.  Four men have been charged in federal court for attempting to tear down the statue of Andrew Jackson in Lafayette Square.  And there are 200 open domestic terrorism investigations.      You contrast the Presidents vision of law and order to that of the failed CHAZ experiments and anarchy, and heres what you find in the failed Democratic experiment that took place out in Seattle The Seattle Times said the shooting at Seattles CHOP protest tragically killed a 16yearold boy, leaving a 14yearold seriously injured.  Thats what happens in an autonomous zone.      The police chief, Carmen Best, who did a marvelous job winding down the CHOP zone noted that CHOP has become lawless and brutal and enough is enough, and she took action.  According to reports, quote, Police also investigated several vehicles circling the CHOP zone with people inside carrying firearms and wearing body armor.  This was no, quote, summer of love, as the Democrat mayor in Seattle said.     And President Trump compelled action.  He has said, Take back your city NOW.  If you dont do it, I will.  He has said, This is not a game.  These ugly Anarchists must be stopped IMMEDIATELY.  MOVE FAST!      And finally, the Democrat mayor in Seattle, who was long delayed, finally gave the order to dismantle the CHAZ.  And it was an admission  it was an admission that President Trumps vision is right, that anarchy is wrong, and that law and order bring peace.     And with that, Ill take questions.      Kristen.