Phoenix Sky Harbor International AirportPhoenix, Arizona1257 P.M. MSTTHE VICE PRESIDENT  Well, good afternoon.  We just completed a thorough briefing with Governor Ducey and his healthcare team here in Arizona about this states response to the rising number of coronavirus cases, and Im going to share a few reflections on what weve heard and thats what were determined to do. But before that, let me take a moment to reflect on another aspect of this day  a huge win for the people of Arizona, for American workers, farmers, and ranchers  and that is that, as of today, the USMCA has taken effect.  It is, I am told, it  this state in particular sees trade with Mexico and Canada support 228,000 jobs, 20 billion annually.And I want to take this opportunity particularly to thank Governor Doug Ducey for his efforts in moving the USMCA through the Congress.  As a candidate, President Trump committed to renegotiate NAFTA in a way that put American jobs, American workers, farmers, and ranchers first, and weve done that.  And that promise was kept when the USMCA took effect today.  So, Governor Ducey, you have our sincerest thanks.President Trump asked us to be here today, with the dramatic rise of coronavirus cases in Arizona, to receive a briefing from Governor Ducey and the healthcare team about this states response to this pandemic. And I want to say, first and foremost, to Governor Ducey that, from the very first days of this pandemic, your leadership and your entire team in Arizona has really formed a seamless partnership with our administration, with the White House Coronavirus Task Force.  And up until roughly three weeks ago, Arizona had literally set the pace in slowing the spread, in flattening the curve.  And were grateful to you, to your team, and to all the people of Arizona for all of their efforts over the past four months.But with cases rising dramatically  and not just here in Maricopa County, but all across Arizona  we wanted to be here to get a report from the ground.  Well take back what we heard here today.  Well ensure with the team that we brought with us, including the Acting Secretary of Homeland Security who oversees FEMA, to make sure that Arizona has what you need, when you need it.We told the governor today and we say to the people of Arizona Were with you, and were going to make sure that Arizona has whatever it takes to meet this moment, to slow the spread, to flat  flatten the curve, to save lives.  Thats our commitment to each and every one of you.We also brought along Admiral John Polowczyk, who has coordinated all of the PPE supplies, the construction of ventilators.  And while we are encouraged to hear today thats the  the hospital capacity here remains strong on supplies and equipment, we did hear in the briefing today for the need for personnel.Weve already responded.  Sixtytwo medical personnel arrived this week in Tucson.  But the governor conveyed to us an additional request for another 500 personnel, and Ive instructed the Acting Secretary of Homeland Security to move out immediately on providing the additional doctors and nurses and technical personnel.We want to say to all the incredible healthcare workers here in Arizona Help is on the way.  And were going to spare no expense to provide the kind of reinforcements that you will need all across this state should this  this coronavirus pandemic continue to expand in Arizona.As I said, we were encouraged to hear that hospital capacity remains manageable 88  85 percent of medical beds and only 88 percent of ICU beds.  But the governor and I also spoke today about two additional facilities that were already reviewed and developed by the Army Corps of Engineers, and the governor knows that were prepared to stand those surge facilities up in very short order if the need should arrive.Were going to make sure that that Arizona continues to have the healthcare capacity in this state to render to everyone who contracts the coronavirus the level of healthcare that we would want any one of our family members to receive.And finally, let me say The President and I couldnt be more grateful for Governor Duceys leadership throughout this coronavirus pandemic.  But with cases rising in the last several weeks, we want to make it clear that we fully support the steps that Governor Doug Ducey and local health officials are implementing here across the state of Arizona to slow the spread.Arizona flattened the curve early on in this pandemic, but we all noted something changed about the middle of May.  And thats why this governor has stepped forward, took decisive action to put the health of the people of Arizona first.  And President Trump and I fully support the responsible steps that hes taken to limit large gatherings to pau  pause operations of bars and gyms, movie theaters, and waterparks and delay the start of school until August 17th. President Trump and I and our entire task force are absolutely committed, Governor, to supporting your efforts to respond to this outbreak, to slow the spread, to protect the most vulnerable so that we can keep our economy moving forward and get our kids back to school. The CDC just today posted new guidance for getting our kids back to school yesterday posted new guidance for opening up colleges and universities.  The governor and I discussed today the paramount importance of us moving forward in a way where we can get our kids back into the classroom come this fall. Its been  its been tremendous leadership here in Arizona since the first days of this pandemic.  Your healthcare workers have done a remarkable job, particularly in recent weeks and at this very hour, caring for those that have been impacted by the coronavirus.  But I want to say to all the good people of Arizona We all need to do our part.  And we want to encourage every Arizonan to adhere to the guidance that the governor has issued and also the guidance of local authorities. We issue a particular plea to young people.  I was informed today by the Maricopa County Department of Health that more than 50 percent of all of those who are testing positive in Maricopa County are under the age of 35.  And young people know that, without an underlying health condition, that the threat to them of a serious outcome for the coronavirus remains low.  But we want to remind our young people As you see the measures that the governor has put into place and you hear about the call for commonsense personal hygiene and the wearing of masks that this is about protecting our most vulnerable.Ive got three 20somethings in my family, and I know that no young person here in Arizona would want to inadvertently expose a grandmother, or a grandfather, an elderly neighbor, a mom, or a dad to the coronavirus. And so to each of them, we want to commend all the steps the governor has put into place.  But we want to remind you that now is the time for all of us, particularly the young among us, to remember to wash your hands, practice good hygiene, wear a mask when indicated by state or local authorities or when social distancing is not possible.  We can all do our part to slow the spread, to flatten the curve, to save lives. And remember, its not an eitheror.  Dr. Fauci said, not just a few short days ago, that we shouldnt look at these public safety measures as an impediment to continuing to open up our economy we should look at them as a vehicle to opening up.  The more we all do to support the public health measures that have put into effect, the quicker we can get Arizonas economy growing, get our kids back to school, and thats were determined to do. Were all in this together.  And together, Im very confident that, as all of us do our part each and every day, well slow the spread, well flatten the curve, well save lives all across this state, and we will lay a foundation to bring this states economy back bigger and better than ever before.So thank you very much.  And, Governor Ducey, thank you for an important and informative briefing.  Were with you.GOVERNOR DUCEY  Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I want to say thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your leadership and your partnership throughout this pandemic.  It was great to see you today in person, but Im able to see you at least once or twice a week on the constant communication that we have from the Coronavirus Task Force.  We very much appreciate it  your commitment and Presidents  Trumps commitment to serving Arizona and helping us solve the issues that are in front of us today.I also want to thank the Coronavirus Task Force  to have Secretary Chad Wolf here today Rear Admiral Polowczyk, who is talking to us about supplies and Dr. Deborah Birx, who has been with us for several days in Arizona, meeting with leaders, decision makers, and influencers in the healthcare industry across our state, and actually seeing whats happening across the Southwest, including New Mexico and Texas.  Were grateful for what she has been able to contribute to the discussion, the questions she was able to answer, and guidance that she was able to clarify. I also want to thank General McGuire and Dr. Cara Christ, who are working with their counterparts in the federal government, and the hard work that they have been doing. And most of all, I want to say thankful  thank you to our healthcare workers who are on the front lines  our doctors, our nurses, our hospital staff, and all of our caregivers.  The decisions that we are making are to help you help the people in Arizona that need it. So our message is clear, in terms of where Arizona is today You are safer at home.  We want to slow the spread of this virus and protect the most vulnerable.  We have taken the steps to temporarily close bars and gyms and waterparks, tubing, and movie theaters. We focused for a long time, and have done a very good job, on our most vulnerable  those that are 65 years or older and at high risk or with chronic health issues.  We now need the message to spread far and wide that we all can contribute to slowing the spread of this virus and have Arizona a safer place by following the fundamentals of masking up, washing your hands, maintaining that physical distance between others, and when youre sick, staying home.If we commit to that, and we do it with increased intensity over the next several weeks, were going to be in a different and better position in Arizona. So with that, again, I want to thank our federal partners, Vice President Pence and President Trump.  Whatever we have asked for and needed  whether it was increased testing or further support on contact tracing, personal protective equipment from face guards to gowns  the answer has been yes, and with urgency, in addition to helping clarify some federal guidance that will help our hospitals here on the ground with support and resources.So I couldnt be more grateful for your partnership and leadership in this battle.  Its something we need to remain vigilant on, and also have flexibility to work with our local leaders across the state who have done an incredible job communicating the benefits of putting on a mask and how that can help our fellow citizens slow the virus and protect the most vulnerable. And with that, I want to turn the podium over to Secretary Wolf of Homeland Security, who has been an incredible partner as well on everything that Arizona has needed  not only with the focus from FEMA, but whatever issues weve had at the border, as well.  For that, were grateful.Secretary Wolf.SECRETARY WOLF  Let me first start off by again thanking the Vice President for his leadership of the Coronavirus Task Force and the team that hes really put together, several of which are here today.  Its really been outstanding.Let me also thank Governor Ducey, again, for your leadership throughout the pandemic, but particularly over the last several weeks as youve seen cases increase here, and again, for the team that youve pulled together as well.DHS continues to proudly support Arizona and all the states that are continuing to respond to the pandemic.  We have done so.  We have obligated more than 90 million to the state of Arizona for National Guard operations, for alternative care facilities, other emergency protective measures, and well continue to do that.Let me also say that, again, through Admiral Polowczyks great efforts, weve been able to send over 318 million units of PPE to the state of Arizona as well, and well continue to surge as we need to do that as well.The Governor mentioned the border.  We continue to look at any threats that are coming across the border, and we put in some essential restrictions several months ago to make sure that we slowed the spread while keeping essential traffic and that trade occurring across your southern border  our southern border  Arizonas southern border. Its absolutely critical to the economies along that border into the U.S. economy, and we want to make sure that we get that right.  Were continuing to assess that on a daybyday, weekbyweek basis to see if theres any changes that we need to make.  And well certainly talk about that at the task force.But let me just end by again thanking the governor for his efforts throughout the pandemic.  And I will say, as we deal with the pandemic, were also dealing with other incidents that are going on throughout the country. So the governors strong support for law and order is vitally important in these days as the department is the countrys largest law enforcement agency.  And so we stand ready to support our state and local partners as were protecting federal facilities, were protecting monuments and statues, and the like.So I want to again thank the governor for his outstanding work as well.DR. BIRX  Mr. Vice President, Governor Ducey, its been a privilege to be with the people of Arizona for the last two or three days.  What has been remarkable to me is watching the people of Arizona respond to the Mask Up Arizona guidelines that made it clear that we respect one another by wearing masks.  I saw that wherever I went for the last several days in Maricopa County, and I want to thank the people of Arizona for showing that respect for each other.We know this virus is circulating actively in several counties.  We also know that there are other counties at risk, and I want to call on all the county leadership and the individuals in each of these counties that, as soon as you see an increase in your test positivity rate, to put on a mask, protect one another.Governor Duceys directive is to really increase our  not only our respect for one another, but that clear communication coming from his health team that made it clear that wearing a mask will change the spread of this virus.  And also making it clear that, with this moment in time, closing the bars, decreasing restaurant spaces, and the other actions will really dramatically having an impact.To all of our Millennials and Gen Z, thank you.  Thank you for your leadership and showing how important the mask and social distancing are, and that communication that youre having with your parents and your grandparents to protect them. But I also want to call on you to be aware that there are people in your age group  people in your age group, every day, that have preexisting conditions that you may not know about  that may have diabetes, that may have hypertension, that may have a weight issue.  These individuals, no matter what their age, are susceptible.  And you can see it in the hospitalizations here in Arizona.  So youre not only protecting those we totally respect in the over65 age group, but youre protecting one another.  And I appreciate that. Yesterday, I got to meet with an entire group, and it showed the Governors commitment and the health commitment of Dr. Christ to understanding guidelines dont work unless theyre translated and working alongside community members. So in that meeting  for community members from the Hispanic community, from the African American community, and today I got to meet with the tribal nation leaders  understanding that messages are not a standalone that they have to translate into the very fabric of our communities so that people understand what their risks are, so that people can get tested, and so that people understand the importance of wearing a mask. I also saw incredible innovation of the American spirit.  We heard from your universities and we heard from your hospitals of the advances that youre taking into the field and care for those who need us the most, and the innovations coming out of your universities to provide innovations and testing and really expanding testing. We talked about how to 10x testing through pooling and communities  communities that are in multigenerational households  bringing testing to the community and to those households, and using household pools to be able to test in 100 percent of the community. I want to thank the African American leader I met yesterday from the community who set up an African American task force to really make sure that messages from the Governor and the health team were being translated at the level of the people who needed to hear it. I thank you for bringing together and understanding that words that arent translated into actions will not stop this virus.  But I am encouraged and I am hopeful, and I am hoping we will see the dramatic impact of you all taking responsibility and wearing masks, so when it comes to August, we can open the schools and open the universities because we know we can stop the spread by utilizing masks and making these small adjustments into our lifestyle and show respect for one another. So thank you, Governor Ducey, for your leadership, for your looking at the science and the data and the evidence.  Thank you to your health team and the brilliant Dr. Christ.  Its been a pleasure to spend time with you and your amazing county public health leaders who understand how to get into the community.  Thank you for your time and the respect that you gave me by wearing masks in public. Thank you.GOVERNOR DUCEY  Thank you, Deb. THE VICE PRESIDENT  Okay.  Questions? Yes, please.