United States Public Health Service HeadquartersRockville, Maryland432 P.M. EDTTHE VICE PRESIDENT Well, thank you all for joining us. The White House Coronavirus Task Force met today, but it is a particular honor to be here at the headquarters of the United States Public Health Service to make an important announcement on the establishment of the Ready Reserve Corps.And also, on behalf of the President and on behalf of entire team, to express our gratitude to the women and men who wear the blue uniforms across the country and have served our nation with such distinction and compassion over the past four months.Im  Im here with several members of our team, who you will hear from in the course of this briefing. But as we gather here today, more than 2.6 million coronavirus cases in the United States sadly, weve lost more than 129,000 Americans.The data report that we received today from Dr. Deborah Birx  who is, as we speak, in Arizona, briefing with Governor Ducey and their team  is that, at this moment, we have 12 states with rising cases and percentpositive cases  a combination of both rising cases and rising percent positive. Beyond that, there are another 28 states that either have rising cases or rising positives but do not have a combination of those two things.We also continue to see that roughly 50 percent of all the new cases are taking place in four states. And so, as you would anticipate, were  we are working with governors and state health officials in all of the states that are impacted, but were particularly focusing on the four states that are generating the majority of the cases which, of course, are California, Arizona, Texas, and Florida.Im pleased to say that, while there are 29 states that have  dont have a combination of rising positivity and rising cases, we also have an additional 10 states that are either entirely stable or have numbers that are so low that theyre de minimis. So our focus, particularly at the task force today, was on the 12 states that have the combination.Beyond that, while one life lost is too many and we mourn the loss of every American and grieve with every family that lost a loved one, because of the dedication of our healthcare workers, because of our response and the response of the American people, we are grateful that, today, fatalities are at the lowest level since the end of March.We continue to be vigilant as we see rising cases. We understand that that could  that could change. But again, to see the precipitous decline in fatalities is a tribute to the healthcare workers in this country and to the cooperation and the compassion of the American people.Our message to every American in the states that are most affected by rising cases and rising positivity rates isWe are with you. We are working with the governors in your state to ensure that they have the resources and the support to meet this moment and provide the level of healthcare that any one of us would expect for a member of our family.But to all of the American people, I say, on behalf of the President of the United States and the White House Coronavirus Task Force, that because of all that weve done over the last four months, were ready. Were in a much better place than we were four months ago or even two months ago. And part of our briefing today will focus on the progress that we have made and our ability to respond to the outbreaks that were seeing occurring in states, particularly across the south.Ive been traveling across the country  I was actually in Texas over this past weekend received a full briefing from Governor Abbott about their response  and I will be traveling to Arizona tomorrow, meeting with Governor Ducey. And Ill be able to confirm to him that we were informed today that a team deployed by FEMA of 62 Disaster Medical Assistance personnel are on the ground in Arizona. Were also currently processing a request from Texas, and were in consultation with other states.As you will hear in a moment, with regard to testing, with regard to personal protective equipment, with regard to ventilators, with regard to therapeutic medicines, we are in a strong position all across the affected areas of the country to meet this moment. But in consultation with the states, were  were going to make sure that they have the reinforcements in healthcare workers. And Im pleased to confirm today that 62 DMAT, or Disaster Medical Assistant Team, members have arrived in Arizona.Ill also be traveling later this week to the state of Florida, where Dr. Birx and I will also receive a briefing, along with Secretary Azar, about that states response.At the present moment, all 50 states in the country are reopening and have done so in one degree or another since the beginning of May, when we issued our Guidelines to Open Up America Again.At this moment in time, because of the rising cases, at least four states have taken action to close down bars, limit capacity in restaurants, and another 10 states have slowed down or postponed certain reopening efforts.And let me make it very clear that we fully support the new guidance thats been issued by the governors in these states. We truly do believe that these prudent measures and additional guidance and steps will make it possible for us to continue to move our nation forward, to continue to reopen in a safe and responsible way, while putting the health  the health of our citizens first.I thought Dr. Fauci put it well in a recent task force meeting when he said, and I think also testified today, that we should not look at public safety measures as an impediment to opening up America, that rather, we should look at them as the vehicle to opening up, as we see rising cases in particularly those 12 states where we have a combination of rising cases and positivity.The American people deserve to know that our best health experts say its not an eitheror. Its not whether we continue to open up or whether we move in an opposite direction, but rather its whether we take these prudent measures that will slow the spread and put the health of our citizens first.Our governors in the affected areas and their public health officials are making  are taking strong action to keep their states open, while slowing the spread and putting the health of their citizens first. And they have our full support.Let me say again, as I said at the outset The American people deserve to know that were in a much better place today, thanks to the wholeofgovernment approach, the wholeofAmerica approach that President Trump initiated at the very outset of the coronavirus pandemic.The  working in cooperation with agencies across the federal government, working with the private sector across this country, we literally have scaled  now 33 million tests have been performed across the United States.And as Admiral Brett Giroir will detail momentarily, were  were testing between 500 and 600 thousand Americans every single day, with the capacity to significantly increase that through the innovation of what is known as pooling.And when it comes to medical supplies, FEMA has facilitated the delivery of literally billions of gloves and gowns and masks. And as Admiral Polowczyk will detail in just a few moments, we are in continuous contact with not just states, but with hospitals in states across the country. And we continue to receive very strong reports about the support theyve received and the supplies that are available to meet this moment.Also, were in a much better place because of the availability of whats known as therapeutics or medicines to treat people that have contracted the coronavirus and are experiencing severe symptoms.Now, Dr. Steve Hahn of the FDA is here, and he will speak about the progress that we are making, whether it be the availability of remdesivir, which were distributing another tranche this week the use of blood plasma, of steroid treatments and  also, we continue to hear very hopeful signs about the continuing  continuing progress for developing a vaccine for the American people.And so, with that, Im going to  Im going to yield to the team here to give you updates. Im going to begin with Secretary Azar, who will update us on our national response, including important work the CDC did today with regard to opening up our schools again. And then Admiral Giroir will update us on testing, Admiral Polowczyk on supplies, and Dr. Hahn on medicines. And then, finally, well hear from Dr. Jerome Adams, the Surgeon General of the United States, who will give counsel to every American in the states that are impacted and all across the country about best practices.So to every American in states that are seeing rising cases and rising trends in positivity We want  we want to assure you were with you. And were deploying, at the Presidents direction, the full resources of the federal government to meet this moment and working in strong partnership with your state and local officials.And to every American We want to assure you that were ready, more ready than ever before, to meet this coronavirus pandemic because of the  because of the resources that our President, that agencies at the federal government, the steps deployed and efforts at state government, and mostly because of what the American people have done and demonstrated that they have the ability to do.I mean, the truth is, while weve made great progress on making availability of testing and supplies and medicines, we all need to do our part. We know how to slow the spread. And the commonsense measures that we outlined in our phased approach to open up America again, the guidelines that apply to all of the phases are  ought to be embraced by every American wash your hands, practice good hygiene, and wear a mask. Wear a mask when  whenever your state and local authorities say its appropriate. Its always good idea to wear a mask when social distancing is not possible.Were all in this together, and we have every confidence that as we met the moment before when we saw this pandemic first strike in the northwest and then strike so hard around the Greater New York City area, then New Orleans, then Michigan, that with a with a  with a wholeofgovernment approach, a wholeofAmerica approach, cooperation of the American people, well do what we did earlier on in this pandemicWell slow the spread and well save lives.And with that, Secretary Azar and members of the team will brief, and then well have time for questions.Mr. Secretary.SECRETARY AZAR Well, thank you, Mr. Vice President, for honoring HHS and the Commissioned Corps with your presence today. And thank you for your leadership of the Presidents allofAmerica response to COVID19.Id also like to thank Admiral Giroir and Vice Admiral Adams for their service during this crisis and for their dedication to strengthening the Commissioned Corps.The men and women of the Commissioned Corps have been and will continue to be central to our COVID19 response and on all six points of our strategy to defeat the virus surveillance, testing, containment, healthcare capacity, vaccines, and therapeutics.To every member of the Commissioned Corps whos gone into harms way in this crisis, whos spent time away from home and loved ones, we are deeply grateful.I want to mention one particular step forward we took today to help Americans get back to work and back to school while protecting us from the virus new guidance from the CDC as to how higher education institutions can protect students and their employees. In particular, it offers recommendations for how and when testing should be used for students, faculty, and staff, including both testing for symptomatic individuals and testing for asymptomatic individuals whove had possible exposure to the virus.The guidance also notes that in areas with moderate to substantial community transmission, where resources allow, colleges and universities can work with local health officials to consider testing asymptomatic students and staff who have no known exposure. This may make sense in order to identify outbreaks and inform control measures, and would especially apply to groups like those living in congregate housing.This guidance relies on what weve learned about the virus in recent months. In the very near future, we will also be releasing similar guidance around Kthrough12 schools, recognizing how important safe schools are to reopening our country.These are just two examples of the sciencebased resources that were providing for state and local health departments and other institutions as they work with federal assistance to continue the fight against the virus and to reopen our country.We need to reopen America. We have to get back to work, back to school, back to worship, back to healthcare. But we must all play our individual parts to enable this reopening. We can reverse these outbreaks and prevent future ones by doing what the President has called for since the beginning in his guidance practice social distancing, wear facial coverings where social distancing is not possible, and practice good personal hygiene.By doing so, you protect yourself, you protect vulnerable household members, but you also protect the person you may be standing next to in the grocery line. And you dont know whether theyre vulnerable. You have no way of knowing whether theyre at high risk of severity, hospitalization, or fatality. You protect them.Theres just three simple steps to keep reopening social distance wear facial coverings when you cant social distance and practice good personal hygiene. Its all we need to do to keep reopening. We can work, go to school, go to worship, reengage with healthcare, if we all, as individuals, practice good, responsible behavior to protect each other and to protect ourselves.So thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.THE VICE PRESIDENT Well done. Admiral?ADMIRAL GIRIOR Thank you, Mr. Vice President and Mr. Secretary. Again, you did us an incredible honor by being here and honoring and appreciating the 6,100 women and men of the Commissioned Corps. We do say women and men we are a 55 percent female service and the most diverse within the country.Im going to take a few minutes and talk about testing. As both the Vice President and the Secretary said, were a world different than we were in March. At that time in early March, wed only done a few thousand tests. Now were doing 550, 600 thousand. Weve actually gone over 600,000 per day, on occasion over 33 million tests.And I think all of you know theres some components to this. Theres, sort of, the front end  somebody to take the swab or to supervise you doing that swab. You got to have the supplies there, you got to have the machines, and you got to have the laboratory tests.So on the front end, way back in March, this had to be done by a practitioner, with a very deep nasal pharyngeal swab in full PPE. We could not get to where we are today, from there, without a lot of science and a lot of collaboration from the FDA.Because were able to validate nasal selfswabbing, those 41 sites turned into what you saw today, in the press, over 600 retail pharmacy sites that have now been extended for several months, continuing from their first June 30th closure now, at least through August, where theres supervised selfswabbing. That has translated into another 1,400 CVS sites. So now 2,000 retail pharmacy sites, born from those first 41, in over 1,300 federally qualified health center sites. Again, most of these focused on the most underserved communities and vulnerable communities.So were scaling that, and every week were getting new authorizations from the FDA to take it the next step further, and thats home selfswabbing. There are some authorizations that are home selfswabbing and some that are video assisted, so we could eliminate a lot of the whole frontend problem where we are.As I said many times, were scaling testing on a routine basis. And Ive told you that, assuming no technological innovations, we will easily be at 40 to 50 million tests available by September. Thats a very conservative estimate  very conservative estimate  because the industry tells us well be at a much higher place.But what are some of the innovations were seeing right now being implemented, again, under the guidance of the FDA, validated, high quality? And thats pooling. Youve heard  youve heard something about pooling. Pooling is very helpful because it could combine more than one sample in a single laboratory assay.So imagine this situation where I wanted to know if all of you were potentially negative, and I thought you were probably negative because you dont have a history, youre not febrile, you havent been in contact with anyone. So you could collect your own swabs, you can put them in tubes, and we can take all of those tubes, or at least 10 of them, and put them into a simple tube and do that assay. If that one single assay is negative, then youre all negative, if you do it appropriately. So you can leverage 2 times, 5 times, possibly even up to 10 times or even more.This is being done now in many universities and many commercial laboratories, and we are absolutely working with everyone in the community to do this. Its not right all the time, but its right a lot of the time. So of those 18, 20 million tests per month that well probably be doing in July, or out of those 35 to 50, 60 million tests were doing in September, you can do the math and multiply at least a portion of those by two, three, or even five. So thats where pooling is going to get us.The final thing I would like to say is, the RADx program, thats the diagnostics program at NIH, as well as the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority, are really making great inroads to innovation. This was funded to sort of get us to the next step, to provide more rapid tests, higher quantities of tests, completely different kinds of tests.Now, again, were not assuming any breakthrough innovations, but theres going to be some, and Im very excited about that. The NIH Director Francis Collins, the BARDA Director Dr. Gary Disbrow, and I work on literally on a daily basis to make sure that the innovations that come on will be translated immediately to our public health system.So Id be happy to take your questions later on today. Thank you.THE VICE PRESIDENT Well, thank you, Admiral Giroir, and thank you for your great efforts. I know I speak for people all across this country when I express how proud we are of the extraordinary progress.And the way weve scaled testing across America is historic. When I was tapped to lead the White House Coronavirus Task Force, we had done less than 8,000 coronavirus tests. And to think that, in the intervening months, now 33 million tests and the ability to scale beyond that, its a  it is a great comfort to the American people and a great tribute  a great tribute to the publicprivate partnership that President Trump forged early on.I think its also been historic to see the progress that weve made on personal protective equipment and particularly for Americans in the four states where 50 percent of the cases are occurring, or the 12 states where were seeing a combination of rising cases in positivity. We want the American people to know that the personal protective equipment for our healthcare providers is also at a historic level.And Ive asked Admiral John Polowczyk to come and to articulate where we stand to date with the hospitals and healthcare facilities in the impacted areas, and our ongoing effort to ensure that the extraordinary doctors and nurses and healthcare workers that are, at this very hour, ministering to Americans struggling with the coronavirus have the masks, the gowns, the gloves, the ventilators, and all the personal protective equipment they need to render that care.But Admiral Polowczyk?ADMIRAL POLOWCZYK Thank you Mr. Vice President. Back in March, midMarch, when I was moved from the Pentagon to FEMA, the President gave me one task Provide our healthcare workers the supplies they need, what they need, when they need it.And Im going to give you a short update today, and I think the theme is We have more  They have more.So, from that time in March, midMarch until now, we are in a fundamentally better position. Im going to go through some details that makes me that confident. And personally  those that personally know me, Im a my glass half full type of person. And so for these  these details I find very encouraging.As we, over the last few weeks, tried to ascertain how well states and hospital networks are preparing, and preparing for the summer into the fall, we held a round of state calls with every state emergency manager and every state health official facilitated by the FEMA regional administrator. So we went through every region and every state, and had a discussion about what we were doing for the National Stockpile and what they were doing for their states.That call led me to believe that 65 to 70 percent of the states have at least 30 days of supply on hand, if not 60. There are many states that have more than 60, that have targets of 90, and looking to achieve that. Those state calls have made me confident of the numbers that were putting into our modernized National Stockpile.Here in recent weeks, with the uptick in cases, where Dr. Birx has highlighted down to the county level, my team has called those hospitals. And I am here to provide a synopsis of that. Weve talked to hospitals in Dallas, Phoenix, Houston, and on down the line. Many of them are reporting 30 to 40 days of supply on hand. Now, there are some sporadic shortages, but mostly in the size of  the size of masks. Could I have more small masks?So we took that information, and I talked to 3M today, as a matter of fact. And theyve already changed  based on the discussions with my team, theyre already changed their production to produce more small and extrasmall masks. So essentially, almost an even split  40, 45, 50 percent were smalls, to then the  to the rest to normal supplies.So states are saying they have supplies. Hospitals and areas where there are outbreaks are having more supplies.Another data tool The National Health Safety Network, where  the CDCrun network where hospitals report days of supplies on hand across the nation  those supplies, back in March  there were many hospitals that were saying that they had less than three days. Now folks have multiple weeks  the majority of hospitals. So we are  we are fundamentally in a different place.One of the things we did was we assembled all of the businesssystem data for the medical supply chain  for the commercial medical supply chain. I have that inaudible at FEMA. And I can see the demand from hospitals and the supply to them. And those numbers are coming together, where supply is getting much closer to demand  all at the same time that states are stockpiling, municipalities are stockpiling, hospitals are stockpiling, and the federal government  with the Health and Human Services, Strategic National Stockpile  is being replenished.So let me  let me shift topics to the nursing home project just real quick. Were on our second round of the nursing home project. You know, those give a little bit more than a weeks worth of supply each. Each round has, you know, almost 2 million sets of eye protection 14 million masks 63 million gowns  gloves and 13 million gowns to get to the 15,000plus nursing homes. Were 60 percent through this second round, and 45 percent have been delivered.And finally, let me just touch on ventilators. So back in March, the National Stockpile had approximately 19,000 ventilators. Today, ready for deployment, we have 48,000. By next week, if the production schedules hold, well have 55,000. So we are  we are in a fundamentally different place for supplies than we are.Pending your questions later, Mr. Vice President, thats all I have.THE VICE PRESIDENT Thats great. Thank you.And one other area where weve made great strides and we hope and pray to make good strides in the months ahead has been in the area of therapeutics and in the headlong pursuit of vaccines. And when we see the extraordinary decline in fatalities over the last two months, it is a tribute, first, to our healthcare workers, to all that theyve done  but its also a tribute to the availability of what are known as therapeutics  medicines like remdesivir the new steroid treatment that you all have heard about the availability of plasma treatments.And I wanted to Dr. Steve Hahn of the FDA to update us on the medicines, as well as where we stand on vaccines.Dr. Hahn.DR. HAHN Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. President Trump asked the FDA early on in the COVID19 pandemic to reduce any unnecessary regulatory barriers to get medical products into the hands of Americans. And FDA created an emergency review and development program for therapies called the Coronavirus Treatment Acceleration Program, and we have supported that program since that time, and it continues to this day.Id like to first start by telling you that the pipeline of therapeutics treatments that we see across this country  the great academics, researchers, private sector  that pipeline is very robust.Currently  currently, as a recent count, FDA is monitoring more than 144 active trials of therapeutic agents for COVID19, and another 457 development programs for therapeutic agents is in the pipeline.So were at a vastly different place than we were three months ago, two months ago. The nations work is paying off, as we saw the positive results of the recent National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease trial of remdesivir in certain hospitalized patients with a significant 30 percent reduction in the length of hospital stay for severe COVID19 patients.We also recently updated the clinical guidelines for the treatment of COVID19 disease, with the addition of dexamethasone and other corticosteroids, with a trial that reported a 30 percent reduction in mortality in severely ill patients.Those two therapies alone will have a significant impact on the natural history and the course of this disease, and provides great hope for those who get sick with this and are hospitalized.But our work isnt done more is in the pipeline. As I mentioned, over 25,000 patients in the United States have been treated on our expanded access convalescent plasma program. Now, just as a reminder, thats where we take antibodies  the antibodies that are naturally developed by someone who has gotten the COVID19 virus and then has recovered  and then we administer that to someone whos sick with COVID19.This has worked in other diseases in the past. We have some preliminary safety data in over 20,000 patients. It shows that this therapy is safe. And were currently evaluating the efficacy of this  the effectiveness of this program. We have great hope for that.Now that information will tell us a lot about, if a person develops antibodies, how protective are those antibodies  what level do you need. And it also gives us information for the next set of therapeutics that are coming down the pike.Already, in clinical trials, we have a number of agents called monoclonal antibodies, which are synthetic forms of antibodies  so, genetically engineered antibodies that can then be given. Again, these have been used in other infectious diseases, and we have hope that they would also work in these disease  in COVID19. And we expect the readout of those trials over the next several months, possibly late summer and early fall.So I just want to switch gears to talk about vaccines. Under the leadership of Secretary Azar and Operation Warp Speed, we have seen the sponsorship of a number of different vaccines. But we know that vaccines are being developed around the world, and FDA has received applications from a doubledigit number of sponsors regarding vaccines.Four vaccines have been approved for moving into clinical trials  that is, authorized to go into clinical trials so we can get the data on those vaccines  and another six are in the pipeline for us to review.Weve seen recent reports of interesting and, I think, positive data regarding the immunogenicity  that is, how well these vaccines stimulate an immune response in people and also regarding their safety.More work needs to be done, but I think weve seen some positive results to date. And obviously, we need to make sure that those studies mature so that we can have the data we need.Now, FDA recognizes the need and urgent need to develop a safe and effective vaccine for COVID19, and weve been working collaboratively with all industry and all of our partners in academia, as well as in government, on that.Today, we took additional action to facilitate the timely development of safe and effective vaccines to prevent COVID19 by providing new guidance with recommendations for those developing COVID19 vaccines. And the goal of this guidance is to assist in the clinical development, and ultimately, hopefully the licensure of a vaccine for the prevention of COVID19.Now, its very important to have this guidance because it provides regulatory transparency and clarity to the developers  what is FDA expecting to see in terms of data and science in the context of clinical trials  so that we can make the absolute best decision for the American people.Now, while the FDA is committed to expediting this work, we will not cut corners in order to approve a vaccine, and we will make clear through this guidance what data are needed to meet our regulatory standards.I remain cautiously optimistic about our timeline with respect to vaccines. We will see what the data show. But clearly, from a therapeutics point of view, there are more tools in the toolbox for the great providers of this country to treat patients with COVID19.And then finally, Id like to add to what the Vice President said, and that is Mask wearing, social distancing, hand hygiene, and other forms of hygiene  this is how were going to keep America open again. Ive heard from colleagues around the country, my former colleagues in cancer care, from friends and families  nobody wants to shut down again. Our way of keeping open is with these public health measures.Thank you very much.THE VICE PRESIDENT Thank you, Dr. Hahn.And as you can see, were in a much better place, whether it be testing, whether it be personal protective equipment, whether it be ventilators, or whether it be the availability of medicines that are speeding relief to Americans struggling with coronavirus.And I  and I promise you that, as the President has directed from the very beginning, were going to continue to bring the full resources of the federal government to bear in support of governors and states that are being impacted by the latest outbreak of the coronavirus.But as we said at the beginning, were all in this together and we all have a role to play. And so I wanted to ask the Surgeon General to bring a few remarks about  about how every American can play their part to slow the spread, to put into practice the kind of personal habits that will ensure not just that they protect their own health or the health of a family member or friend, but most especially, as has been said already, we see that roughly half of the new cases in Texas and Florida, we are told, are among Americans under the age of 35, for whom the threat of serious outcomes from the coronavirus is fairly low.But its not just about protecting yourself as a young person its about making sure that anyone who is vulnerable to a serious outcome with the coronavirus is protected. No one of any age would ever want to inadvertently expose a mother, a father, a grandmother, or a grandfather.And what the Surgeon General will share with us are the kind of practices that will make it possible for all of us to do our part to slow the spread, to heal our land, even as we continue to open up America again.SURGEON GENERAL ADAMS Good evening, everyone. Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for being here at Public Health Service Commissioned Corps Headquarters today. We very much appreciate it.And I just want to start off by saying that we absolutely cannot afford to lose focus on the disproportionate impact that COVID19 has had on vulnerable communities, particularly communities of color.Compared to whites, American Indians and Alaskan Natives are hospitalized at five times the rate black Americans hospitalized at four and a half times the rate Hispanics three and a half times the rate.The fact is, this virus is exploiting and exacerbating preexisting health disparities, and these disparate outcomes and equitable opportunities for health are part of the anger, the frustration, and the fear that were seeing manifest in protests around the country.The fact is, social justice and social injustice often reveals itself through health inequities, and the administration and my office are using our unique levers, including the Public Health Service Commissioned Corps, to ensure that every American has the opportunity to be healthy.At Secretary Azars direction, weve been working at HHS to address these disparities long before the pandemic. But in response to the pandemic, weve taken a number of additional immediate actions. And as were talking about both the burden of disease in our communities, but the resources that are now available to folks to help respond, I want to quickly run down some of these efforts.Admiral Giroir has led our increase in communitybased testing  over 600 sites. Seventy percent of them are in communities that have a high social vulnerability index, which means theyre disproportionately serving people of color.CDC now requires all testing data reported by states to include information on race, ethnicity, and ZIP Code. This mandate will help us better understand who is most affected and how to target interventions on the hardesthit communities. HHS recently allocated 15 billion to Medicaid providers and 10 billion to safetynet hospitals which serve large numbers of our most vulnerable Americans.The administration has also invested critical resources in community health centers  which I often say are our best kept secrets  ensuring that 28 million people living in medically underserved areas have access to care and testing that they need. We dont want our federally qualified and community health centers to be secrets to the people who most can benefit from the care that they receive there.And Secretary Azar  and I want to thank you for this, sir  has instructed my office to expedite calls to action on hypertension  which is the number one risk factor for COVID complications  and maternal mortality, both of which disproportionately impact people of color. And I am very worried about infant mortality and maternal mortality going up in the midst of COVID because women are scared to go out and get care. We need to safely reopen so that people can get the care that they need beyond COVID.Last week, you heard Admiral Giroir announce that Morehouse School of Medicine was awarded 40 million as part of a cooperative agreement with the Office of Minority Health. This effort will be a major leap forward and help us achieve our goal of delivering important COVID19 updates and information in ways and through channels that best reach minority communities.And speaking of reaching minority communities, were really digging into engagement with other folks. So I had a phone call, last week, with over 100 different organizations that are embedded in communities. Jesse Jacksons RainbowPUSH Coalition, the National Hispanic Medical Association, the National Association of Black Nurses, and over 100 other organizations were the phone call. This administration  HHS  were committed to outreach to make sure that we can get the information to the people who most need to benefit from it.And to the point of the VPs visit here today. One of the reasons Im proud to be a leader in the Public Health Service Commissioned Corps is our mission to serve the underserved. Having a Ready Reserve, which is the announcement that we made earlier today, will augment our efforts to eliminate health disparities and ensure everyone has the best chance at a long and healthy life.One of eight uniformed services, the Public Health Service is the only one dedicated solely to protecting and promoting Americas public health. By a number of metrics, we are the most diverse uniformed service. Over 50 percent of our officers are female and only 40 percent identify as white and nonHispanic.We provide essential health services where most others do not go  dare not go, in some cases  to provide care for vulnerable and underserved populations.The bulk of our officers are at Indian Health Services  Health Services facilities, and we have a large number of officers in the Bureau of Prisons  two communities that have been particularly hard hit by COVID19.We serve on the frontline of public health emergencies. My first deployment was to Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands after three Category 5 hurricanes in a row hit those unfortunate territories. We respond quickly to natural disasters, disease outbreaks, and global public health emergencies like Ebola, as well as serve on humanitarian missions.We also advanced innovation in science and work at the forefront of medical challenges like COVID19, cancer, and the opioid crisis, providing new treatments and cures.Which leads me to my finish. We are in a much better place to treat COVID than what we were two months ago, four months ago, even just a few weeks ago.You heard Admiral Polowczyk talk about how we are better supplied than what we were. Doesnt mean that its mission accomplished, but we are in a much better place now with PPE and with other supplies. With steroids, remdesivir, and convalescent plasma, if you get COVID19, we are in a much better position to get you out of the hospital safely.But public health is all about prevention. And Im a leader in the Public Health Service Corps. So, I want to talk about prevention. My Surgeon Generals prescription  which I first announced to you all way back in March  three thingsNumber one, know your risk. Are you at high risk? Are you at low risk? Are you at intermediate risk for COVID19?Number two, know your circumstances. Are you in a community where rates are going up? Are you in a community where rates are going down? Are you going to a place where you can take precautions like being outside and social distancing?And number three, know how to stay safe. And that includes everything from making sure were taking basic precautions, to staying home if youre at high risk or youre going to a highrisk place.The fact is, were seeing an increase in cases and an increase in hospitalizations in those under 40. So we need everyone to follow our preventive guidelines. Stay home if youre sick. Stay at home if youre vulnerable. And again, we know people are more vulnerable as they get older, but theyre also vulnerable if they have hypertension, diabetes, and obesity. Wash your hands or use hand sanitizer frequently went out. Maintain six feet of distance between you and others when youre out. And please, please, please wear a face covering when you go out in public. It is not an inconvenience. It is not a suppression of your freedom. It actually is a vehicle to achieve our goals. It adds to your convenience and your freedom because it allows us to open up more places and it allows us places to stay open. When you do not wear your face covering, we end up in a situation where you see higher rates of disease spread and you end up having to close places. This mask, this face covering, actually is an instrument of freedom for Americans if we all use it.Young people, I just want to close by asking you to work with us, please. Work with us because I know that many of you feel like youre not at risk or youre not as high of a risk, but we need all of you to help protect the most vulnerable, but also to protect yourselves and to give you more options.If you want the return of college football this year, wear a face covering. If you want a chance at prom next spring, wear a face covering. I had a interview earlier with a North Carolina radio station if you want to see North Carolina beat Duke in person this year, wear a face covering. And I grew up in Maryland and in Indiana, so sorry, Duke, but I  as long as somebody beats you, Im okay with that. Laughter. If you want to go on spring break next March, next April, wear a face covering.I want you all to understand that this is not meant to be pessimistic. I am actually confident, based on the data weve seen around the country and around the world, that if we do the right things, we actually can reopen and stay open.COVID time is a long time. In just a few weeks, we can drastically see things go in the wrong direction, but we also can drastically see things improve. If you all will commit to wearing these face coverings and taking basic public health precautions, as the nations doctor, as Americas doctor, I want you to know I have every confidence that we can very quickly see these new case counts go down, and we can reopen, we can get back to school, to work, to worship, and to college football.But weve all got to do our part. Its up to you, America. If you join in and we all do our part, we all win.Thank you.THE VICE PRESIDENT Thank you, Dr. Adams. Thank you so much. Weve got time for a few questions.Great. Mario.