James S. Brady Press Briefing Room125 P.M. EDTMS. MCENANY Hello, everyone. Law and order are the building blocks to the American Dream, but if anarchy prevails, this dream comes crum  comes crumbling down. Anarchy in our streets is unacceptable, and anger is not enough. You have a President committed to action.The DOJ has arrested over 100 anarchists for rioting and destruction of federal property. The DOJ has also charged four men in federal court for attempting to tear down the statue of Andrew Jackson in Lafayette Square. The FBI has over 200 open domestic terrorism investigations ongoing. AG Barr has created a task force on violent antigovernment extremists led by the U.S. Attorneys Office in New Jersey and the U.S. Attorneys Office in Northern Texas.With 200 Trumpappointed judges confirmed, the rule of law will be upheld. Democrats at all lev  at all levels  federal, state, and local  have done nothing. Senate Democrats blocked bipartisan police reform. Minnesotas Democrat governor failed to urgently deploy the National Guard  it took President Trump for that to eventually happen his suggestion  and the ultimate descendance into chaos there in Minneapolis.Three Democrat Minneapolis councilmembers voted to abolish the police, while they themselves were getting a private security detail. Thats quite rich.Democrat mayor of Seattle called the CHOP zone  the autonomous zone  the summer of love. It is anything but that with one dead, multiple shootings, and desperate pleas for help unanswered by business owners and others.Eleven people were shot in 12 hours this weekend in the Democratrun New York City. And 61 people were shot in Democratrun Chicago, and 15 fatally killed  a Democrat state, a Democrat city.President Trump stands against defunding our brave police officers, caving to mob rule, and cancel culture which seeks to erase our history.Lets be clear The rampant destruction of statues is not a part of any ideology, but this anarchy is aided by failed Democrat leadership. And as President Trump has tweeted, these statues, quote, are great works of art, but all represent our History  Heritage, both the good and the bad. It is important for us to understand and remember, even in turbulent and difficult times, and to learn from them.So lets stand for law and order, for peace in our streets, and against anarchy. This is President Trumps vision for the future.And with that, Ill take questions.Kristin.