James S. Brady Press Briefing Room128 P.M. EDTMS. MCENANY Hello, everyone. This past Fathers Day weekend, we saw violence across the country, but we saw scant media coverage of this violence.Lets be clear here The states are responsible for policing their streets. The governors, the mayors are responsible for ensuring that our streets are safe, that the American people are protected. And what we have seen is, in far too many Democratruns states and Democratrun cities, we have seen violence and chaos and nothing like the law and order that we saw here in D.C. when President Trump stepped in and surged the National Guard.In Chicago, for instance, we saw over 100 people were shot and 14 tragically killed, including a threeyearold was among the victims. And one local news outlet tragically reported that multiple teenagers were killed in Chicago this weekend as well.In Minneapolis, 11 people were shot and one person killed. One individual was a father of two who worked as a barber and our hearts break for this family.Also in Democratrun New York City, we saw that the New York Post reported that there was one shooting per hour this Saturday  absolutely inexcusable  with 24 people shot on Saturday alone.And then in Democratrun Seattle, weve seen the autonomous zone, otherwise known as CHOP  CHOP. One person was shot and killed in this autonomous zone run by radical anarchists. And also, we saw another shooting there yesterday as well. And the Democrat mayor of the city called CHOP, quote, the Summer of Love, but it has been nothing of this sort, clearly, with two individuals shot, one person shot and killed.It is the responsibility of governors to protect their states, to police their streets. The police power rests at the state level. And we expect mayors to step up and to do their job, and governors to step up and do their job in the mold of President Trump, who secured D.C. after a night of lawlessness two weeks ago.Finally, the Defund Police movement is misguided. It will only hurt the vulnerable citizens of American cities the most. Its sad, and it is shameful.And with that, Ill take questions. Yes.