James S. Brady Press Briefing Room134 P.M. EDTMS. MCENANY Good afternoon everyone. The great American comeback is underway. Just before joining you all, we learned from the Bureau of Labor Statistics that unemployment has fallen in 43 states in May, as Americans are going back to work.Also, I would like to reemphasize the numbers that Director of the NEC Larry Kudlow shared with you all yesterday that the CBO predicted that, in the third quarter, we will get plus20 percent GDP. Theyve predicted in Q4, we will be at plus20 percent GDP. And top economist Ed Hyman says that, in Q1 of 2021, he is predicting plus5 in GDP. And this would put GDP above its 2019 peak. Thats right. So precoronavirus numbers, should those predictions pan out. We are back and we will be booming.Finally  well, second to finally, we are encouraged that we continue to gather positive data on a number of therapeutics. Heparin, dexamethasone  or steroids, is as its more commonly known convalescent plasma and remdesivir have all shown promise in treating coronavirus. Preliminary findings in a large, UKbased recovery trial found that when steroids were used, there was a 30 percent reduction in death for coronavirus patients on ventilators. The FDA is reviewing this recovery trial data now.Additionally, on convalescent plasma, there is more encouraging news. In partnership with Mayo Clinic, the Trump administration moved very quickly on this therapy in its earliest days, recognizing that it showed promise. Though the  through the FDA, Mayo Clinic, and the administrations work and our handinhand partnership, weve found that this treatment is very promising. This has shown that the administration has left no stone unturned in looking at every possible treatment at the very earliest stages.The lead investigator of this Mayo Clinic study, Dr. Michael Joyner, summed up his work, in saying that convalescent plasma, quote, continues to look promising, end quote, noting the, quote, excellent news of this study, which covered a diverse population of patients. About 20 percent were African American, nearly 35 percent Hispanic, 5 percent Asian, and 40 percent women.Prior experience with respiratory viruses in some data that have emerged globally suggest that convalescent plasma has the potential to lessen the severity or shorten the length of the illness caused by COVID19. The results from Mayo underscore that promise.As you can see, the Trump administration and FDA lead on identifying convalescent plasma as a therapeutic and the results are encouraging.Finally, I wanted to share some words from President Trump Juneteenth reminds us of both the unimaginable injustice of slavery and the incomparable  incomparable joy that must have attended emancipation. It is both a remembrance of a blight on our history and a celebration of our nations unsurpassed ability to triumph over darkness. That ability is rooted in the fundamental goodness of America, in the truths upon which we, as a nation, declared an end to our status as the subjects of a monarch and emerged as a free and independent people  those truths that all men are created equal by the hand of God, endowed by our Creator with the right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.And, with that, Ill take questions.Mario.