James S. Brady Press Briefing Room115 P.M. EDTMS. MCENANY Good afternoon, everyone. Great to join you today. So, five years ago today, nine innocent parishioners of a historically black church were killed during an evening Bible study in Charleston, South Carolina. We all remember that tragedy, and this was a despicable act of evil that happened five years ago today. So we remember that somber day at that Charleston church, as our hearts still break for the victims and our prayers go out to the families.Yesterday, President Trump led and brought our nation together behind real, meaningful, substantial change to ensure that we have safe streets and safe policing. Part of that was having an incentive structure to implement the highest professional standards in our police departments through an accreditation process.This accreditation entails making sure you have deescalation practices in place, use of force tactics in place. Part of that is prohibiting chokehold, except in the event where lethal force is used. It also incentivizes information sharing and makes sure that if they have an officer whos had multiple uses of excessive force, that that information is sent to a national database.And then, finally, another prong of this was having coresponders, who are experts in mental health, going alongside law enforcement, because we know law enforcement officials often have to deal with mental health, homelessness, and addiction. And having a coresponder, who is an expert in this process, will go a long way.This is project  progress. Its tangible action. And its solutions.And today, Senator Tim Scott said this is not a binary choice between supporting police officers and between supporting victims of grave injustices, like George Floyd. Its not a binary choice. There are not sides here. This is about America coming together. This is about human decency. And this is about justice. And when we see injustices, we recognize them.As President Trump said yesterday, all children deserve equal opportunity because we are all made equal by God. That is so true.First, let me point out that I have sat across from a police officer family that lost their loved one. I saw a little girl named Charlie, who will forever grow up without a father who will forever grow up without a father for prom, for the fatherdaughter dance. And it was heartbreaking to know that she lost her father, who was a valiant hero.But yesterday, I sat across from families who lost their loved ones in mass instances of injustice. And it was heartbreaking to hear their stories. It was a real tragedy. It was a tearful moment. It was an emotional moment. And its one that the President, when I asked him in the Oval Office about it afterwards, he said this I love those families. I want to help those families. And President Trump means that. Because this is about humanity. That is ultimately what this is about.And Senator Scott shared a very beautiful Bible verse with those families yesterday, and I just want to read it here, to close. Romans 828 And we know that in all things, God works for the good of those who love Him, who have been called according to his purpose. He shared that Bible verse with those families, and it was particularly meaningful to me and, I think, to the families, as well.And, with that, Ill take questions. Yes.