James S. Brady Press Briefing Room248 P.M. EDTMS. MCENANY So, Im sorry we are very late, you guys. Im sorry to keep you waiting. I was working with the President on something, and he wanted me to hand this out to you all. And I have it here, so I want to read it to the American public, directly from the PresidentIt has been suggested that we should rename as many as 10 of our legendary military bases, such as Fort Bragg in North Carolina Fort Hood in Texas Fort Benning in Georgia. And the list goes on. These monumental and very powerful bases have become part of a great American heritage and a history of winning, victory, and freedom. The United States of America trained and deployed our heroes hereand won two world wars. Therefore, my administration will not even consider the renaming of these magnificent and fabled military installations. Our history, as the greatest nation in the world, will not be tampered with. Respect our military!So that was directly from the President. And we spent some time working on that, and I wanted to deliver that to you.Also, I wanted to take us through a few other things relating to the coronavirus. First, the coronavirus task force briefing was held yesterday. I was in it, and there was some very good news that Id like to share with you. I dont know if you all saw there were two studies that came out  very strong studies  in the journal, Nature. And in Europe, which had a very similar epidemic profile to the United States, 3.1 million lives were saved due to mitigation and the efforts taken by the European governments. And as Dr. Birx noted to me  she sent this to me just before I walked out here  she said it suggests that the United States also prevented over 3 million deaths, thanks to the efforts of President Trump and the American people.Another study found that the shutdown efforts prevented 50 million additional coronavirus cases. So those are two very encouraging studies underscoring the work of the American people.Also, the Washington Post noted that these two reports use completely different methods to reach similar conclusions. They suggest that the aggressive and unprecedented shutdowns were effective at halting the exponential spread of the novel coronavirus. So thank you, Washington Post, for that good reporting.The Department of Agriculture, Secretary Sonny Perdue also had some very good news in the task force briefing I was at yesterday. Americas meatpacking facilities  at one time, it looked like they were going to need to close that was unacceptable to the administration. So we took action  the coronavirus task force took action  and now Im pleased to report that these meatpacking facilities are operating at 95 percent capacity compared to 2019. We have beef operating at 98 percent capacity, pork at 95 percent, and poultry at 98 percent.Throughout Americas extraordinary efforts to slow the spread, President Trump ensured that the meat supply chain stayed functional and robust by directing these meatpacking facilities to safely operate in accordance with the CDC and OSHA guidelines. His efforts secured Americas continual access to a steady food supply chain.And then, finally, and very importantly, I have some great data points to share on coronavirus testing capacity and minority communities. Admiral Brett Giroir shared this with me yesterday and last night as well He said that when we look at testing sites, President Trumps publicprivate partnership with retail companies has proven quite successful. Testing sites are operating in 49 states with 70 percent of these sites located in communities with moderate to high social vulnerabilities. And social vulnerability takes into account race, ethnicity, housing and economics, language barriers, and other factors.Also, federally qualified health centers  theyre FQHCs  serve 29 million patients in 12,000 communities across the nation. They provide care to one in five of those uninsured, one in five rural Americans, one in five of  one in three of individuals below the poverty line, and more than 1.3 million homeless men and women, and nearly a million migrant agricultural workers. And 92 percent of these FQHCs now offer COVID test. And weve awarded them 583 million to 1,385 of these facilities.And finally, finally  I promise my last announcement The HHS Office of Minority Health issued a competitive funding opportunity to build a strategic network of national, state, territory, tribal, local, and communitybased organizations that deliver vital health information and support linkages to services for racial and ethnic minorities. And this  this announcement  this network is scheduled to be awarded at the end of June and is expected to reach at least 40 million individuals from racial and ethnic minorities.These updates, I was told by Brett Giroir, were received very well at the Senate hearings. And we thank the Vice President, Mike Pence, for doing an amazing job leading our coronavirus task force, and to President Trump, who has led in bringing America through the coronavirus pandemic.And, with that, Ill take questions.