James S. Brady Press Briefing Room213 P.M. EDTMS. MCENANY Hello everyone. The transition to greatness has officially begun. Fridays jobs report was encouraging, to say the absolute least. The jobs in this country  we had more than 2.5 million added. The prediction was that 7.5 million jobs would be lost. This was a 10 million swing toward the positive side and, in fact, the greatest number of jobs created in a single month on record. That is extraordinary. 225,000 manufacturing jobs, 464,000 thousand construction jobs, and 1.2 million leisure and hospitality jobs were all added in May.Beyond that, the number of workers who reported being on temporary layoffs decreased by 2.7 million in May. And more than that  and this was a great number that was pointed out to me today by the CEA  300  300,000 jobs were created for black Americans in particular. Thats in May, and that was a 1.7 percent increase. So very encouraging numbers there from the CEA that they highlighted for me  BLS numbers that they highlighted.Mays jump in average weekly hours also was an encouraging sign because increasing hours is a sign that employees need to hire  employers need to hire more workers to meet demand. For all privatesector employees, average weekly hours increased by 0.5 percent to 34.7 hours  the highest level since the series began in 2006. Seventythree percent of small businesses are open. That is up from the 52 percent right before the April jobs report reference period. Also, workplace visits are up roughly 40 percent from its pandemic low.The stock market is absolutely soaring. We saw with the SP that it had its greatest 50day rally in history. The Dow, likewise, is also booming. The markets clearly have confidence in President Trump  the jobs President who created the hottest economy in modern history once and will do it again.Also commentators and economists have noted how great this jobs report was. Yesterday, we saw Mohamed ElErian, the chief economic advisor at Allianz, say this will go down in history as the biggest positive data shock for the markets and the economy. And you saw how surprised the markets were. They surged on Friday, capping a strong week, with the NASDA