James S. Brady Press Briefing Room217 P.M. EDTMS. MCENANY Hello, everyone. So Im going to start with a few housekeeping announcements. First of all, the Presidents annual physical results are ready for release. The full memo will be released shortly. But in summary, the President remains healthy.Also, Id like to congratulate the winners of last nights primary elections. President Trump has now endorsed candidates and has a 64 to 0 record in congressional, special, and primary election races since the midterms, demonstrating the strength of and support for the Presidents agenda across the country as evidenced in the 64 consecutive congressional, special, and primary elections over the past 13 months.So, next, I want to transition to talking about some of the things going on around the country. The First Amendment does not give anyone the right to riot. The First Amendment does not give anyone the right to loot. The First Amendment doesnt give anyone the right to burn down buildings. The First Amendment does not give anyone the right to deface property. And it does not give anyone the right to assault private citizens and to assault police officers.The First Amendment, however, does give you the right to peaceably assemble. And the greatest example that we have seen of peaceful protest, an absolute embodiment of the First Amendment, is the March on Washington. On August 28, 1963, a quarter of a million Americans gathered at the Lincoln Memorial and peacefully made a powerful march and a powerful point that all Americans should be treated equally that racial discrimination was unacceptable, abhorrent, and that it needed to be rectified.And in the famous I Have a Dream speech by Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, he said this We must not allow our creative protest to de  excuse me, to degenerate into physical violence. Again and again, we must rise to the majestic heights of meeting physical force with soul force.And soul force is exactly what Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. met the nation with when he said this I have a dream that my four little children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character. Important words, important actions from an American hero who contributed to making this nation the greatest on Earth.With that in mind, we must remember to recognize the lives lost, the passing of George Floyd who was killed unjustly  in a horrific video that we all have seen. And we must also remember the passing of police captain David Dorn yesterday, who was shot and killed by looters in St. Louis, in an absolute tragedy. A retired officer, 77 years old, whose wife was also a police officer herself. Dorn was a hero and an unfortunate casualty in the riots we have seen. Our hearts are with his family.We are all Americans. We must come together. We must unify. And we must have law and order.And with that, Ill take questions. Weijia.