James S. Brady Press Briefing Room214 P.M. EDTMS. MCENANY So, I want to start by acknowledging the horrific tragedy in Minnesota of George Floyd. The death of George Floyd is absolutely tragic  that video that we saw, that I saw, that my staff saw, that the President saw.And the President put out a statement last night that, At his request, the FBI and the Department of Justice are already well into an investigation as to the very sad and tragic death in Minnesota of George Floyd. I have asked for this investigation to be expedited and greatly appreciate all of the work done by law enforcement. My heart goes out to Georges family and friends. Justice will be served!I can tell you that as Im briefing you at this moment, the President is receiving a briefing from the Attorney General, Bill Barr, on this and the Deputy Director of the FBI, as that is ongoing on as I began this briefing.Secondly, I want to transition into some news from SBA and Treasury that was announced, that today, the U.S. Small Business Administration, in consultation with the U.S. Treasury Department, announced that it is setting aside 10 billion of round two funding for the Paycheck Protection Program to be lent exclusively to CDFIs. Those are community development financial institutions. CDFIs work to expand economic opportunity in lowincome communities by providing access to financial products and services for local residents and businesses. So were encouraged to see that.And then, finally, before taking your questions, I wanted to address what has been going on on Twitter and with social media. I believe it is time to, quote, get the facts about Twitter and other social media platforms targeting their bias against President Trump and conservatives online.If we were to judge the bias of Twitter and its top employees by their own words, the case would be an easy one to make. Twitters head of site integrity has tweeted that there are, quote, actual Nazis in the White House, and no factcheck label was ever applied to this absolutely outrageous, offensive, and false claim made against the White House and its employees.But lets judge Twitter based on their actions, not based on the words of its top employees. And its actions are no better. President Trump recently received a socalled fact check label for a tweet. It was a false fact check, an inaccurate fact check, but nevertheless, Twitter moved forward with it.Dan Scavino, the Deputy Chief of Staff here, was the first user in the history of Twitter to receive a socalled, quote, manipulated media label for posting a video that played a verbatim clip. It is no coincidence that these two unbelievable interventions by Twitter were targeted against the President of the United States and one of the Presidents top advisors. This is bias in action.And while big tech is quick to censor the President, quick to censor some of his top employees, they  they are very reluctant, it seems, to label some of the actions by Chinese officials, some of the misinformation that has been spread by China. For example, to move off of Twitter and move to Google, they created a search engine for the Chinese Communist Party, which blacklisted searches for human rights and allowed for easy surveillance.Facebook and Twitter have both taken paid advertising that spread disinformation about Chinas mass imprisonment of religious minorities. And Twitter has allowed Chinese officials to use its platforms to spread misinformation about the coronavirus, undermine the prodemocracy protests in Hong Kong, and more.And then, back in March, a Chinese official began spreading a conspiracy theory on Twitter  an egregious one  that our U.S. military was responsible for the spread of the coronavirus. And that tweet, that disinformation, it took all the way until today, when we raised concerns about it, to get a fact check.So they appear to be very hastily eager to censor President Trump and some of his employees but a little reluctant when it comes to China. Its a bit befuddling.But no one believes in the First Amendment more than the President. The President will take action to ensure that big tech does not stifle free speech and that the rights of all Americans to speak, tweet, and post are protected.And finally, I just want to note one other action of Twitter that I learned just before walking out here that, on the Mueller report, their antiTrump headlines were antiTrump by a ratio of 76 to 1. Thats extraordinary. And its not just bias aimed at President Trump and his employees, its also aimed at everyday Americans. Its aimed at the movie Unplanned, as Twitter suspended their account and then came up with an excuse in the aftermath.And then, just another example that liberals are allowed to incite violence against the Covington kids who were, in the end, proven right and their video was taken out of context, and yet these individuals were led  were allowed by Twitter to incite violence. Its very disturbing to see.So those are some of the Presidents concerns. And with that, I will take questions.Jim. Thats a very nice tie, Jim, by the way.