James S. Brady Press Briefing RoomMay 22, 2020148 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. At my direction, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is issuing guidance for communities of faith. I want to thank Dr. Redfield and the CDC for their work on this matter and all the other work theyve been doing over the past what now seems like a long period of time.Today, Im identifying houses of worship  churches, synagogue, and mosques  as essential places that provide essential services.Some governors have deemed liquor stores and abortion clinics as essential but have left out churches and other houses of worship. Its not right. So Im correcting this injustice and calling houses of worship essential.I call upon governors to allow our churches and places of worship to open right now. If theres any question, theyre going to have to call me, but theyre not going to be successful in that call.These are places that hold our society together and keep our people united. The people are demanding to go to church and synagogue, go to their mosque. Many millions of Americans embrace worship as an essential part of life.The ministers, pastors, rabbis, imams, and other faith leaders will make sure that their congregations are safe as they gather and pray. I know them well. They love their congregations. They love their people. They dont want anything bad to happen to them or to anybody else.The governors need to do the right thing and allow these very important, essential places of faith to open right now, for this weekend. If they dont do it, I will override the governors. In America, we need more prayer, not less.Thank you very much. Thank you.MS. MCENANY All right, everyone. Its a pleasure to join you today. That was a great announcement from President Trump. Id like to introduce Dr. Birx right now. She has a wonderful presentation pursuant to reopening America, and some great data to share with you.So Ill let her kick this off.DR. BIRX Thank you, Kayleigh. If we can have the first slide, please.I wanted to start out with a summary of the number of Americans we have lost to date. But the exciting thing for all of us is the decreasing mortality over time, and I think it both is a real aspect of the amazing healthcare workers on the frontline, the ability of people to share at the frontline how best to care for the patients and the continuous decrease in mortality over time.Next slide.The other thing that has decreased significantly over the last month is new hospitalizations. We can see now that theres over a 50 percent decline in new hospitalizations. Although every region of the country is different, we are encouraged to see these new hospitalizations declining.Next slide.Ive talked before about the extensive surveillance that CDC has made available to this country. This is looking at their syndromic surveillance from emergency rooms. You can see that both COVIDlike illnesses shown in the orange, and shown in the blue, influenzalike illness  taking up both of those cases together  you can see significant declines week over week of number of people coming to the emergency room with these illnesses. That goes along with our new hospitalizations.What we like to do is triangulate data, put data together from multiple sources, to see if were seeing the same trends so that we can ensure that were making progress together.Next slide.This is their influenzalike illness surveillance system that has been up and running for more than a decade now. You can see each of the influenza peaks of this last year. I think thats very important to remind people of because we had influenza A, influenza B, and then we had COVIDlike illness. And while we know its COVID  thats the last orange peak  what we really find encouraging is, across the country, we are below baseline. Why is that particularly important? Now, these are reported state by state, county by county. So each county will be able to see precisely where they are. And then if there is changes in this, it becomes yet again an early alert system.So Ive showed you two early alert systems one of them emergency rooms visits based on our syndromic illness qualifications that the CDC has up on their website, and then the influenzalike illness. And again, to the American people, all of these are available on the CDC website under COVID19 Cases and Surveillance.Next slide.Now, I want to show you  Im going to go through these very quickly. This is where we started this is influenzalike illness, the red. And the darker the red, the more significant the influenzalike illness is in that state. So you want to get to green.So this is the week ending March 28th. I think many of us can remember what that week was, and this was when we were at the very beginning of our acceleration into logarithmic phase.Next slide.This is April 4th. Youre starting to see some of the states already turn green.Next slide. April 11th, more of the country. Next slide. April 18th. Next slide. April 25th.Next slide. May 2nd. And you can see  and I really call your attention to  theres a orange area on this slide, and you can see that its the Maryland area, and weve been calling that out for a while, the high plateau in Maryland. You can also see Minnesota and Wisconsin.Next slide.And then you can see Wisconsin still. You can see Maryland is yellow.Next slide.And I want to turn just a moment, and I know that took you through a lot of slides quickly, but I think we can see, as a country, we have decreasing amount of illness, both at the emergency room and reported through the influenzalike illness. Two of the surveillance systems at the CDC has up and running. These come from the states they come from the counties. And many of the states have these also on their websites.We talked earlier about how we had prioritized testing to the area that had the most significant disease. And you can see now Rhode Island has led all of the states. Its almost up to testing 12 percent of all of their citizens. Its followed by New York, and you cant see New York, but thats the very next one. New York and then North Dakota. And so you can see that. Well, you could.Yeah, you could see that most of the highburden areas of the United States had more than 6 percent testing. Thats when I think you heard from Admiral Giroir we wanted every state to test at least 2 percent of their population during May. You can see 100 percent of the states now are over 2 percent of their population. And well fix this slide so you can see every state, but many of the states now are over 4 percent. And this is just after getting all the materials to ensure that they have adequate transport media and swabs.So were encouraged by the progress that many of the governors and states have made in their testing of their population. It is also why we took the opportunity to really encourage governors, and it was to encourage governors to test 100 percent of the nursing home residents and staff, because many of our outbreaks that we have seen over the last two months have started in nursing homes.Next slide.Now, this is a complicated slide, but this is trying to show you how we triangulate data. So I took you through our surveillance systems. Im taking you now into the start of how we use laboratory data to really understand whats happening, both in the metros and at the state level.This is every single state. And you can see the triangles  the top part that you can see, the little trianglely pieces or the diamonds  that is where the states were in the number of positive tests. This is the nucleic acid test. This is diagnosing virus in your nose. You can see where it was 30 days ago and where it is now, by the red squares.You can see a dramatic decline across the states. And indeed, New York City, just six weeks ago, was almost 40 percent. It is now, for the first time, as a New York  as a New York State, under 10 percent.And so this is the progress that were making in both expanding testing, finding more people, but ensuring that were getting testing rates of about 10 percent. This line is 10 percent. So 42 states are  now have less than 10 percent test positive on a rolling sevenday average.Now, again, Im going to call your attention to the top three states  the top three states with the largest percent. And this is so you can all make your decisions about going outside and social distancing, potentially playing golf, if youre very careful and you dont touch the flags and all of those issues playing tennis with marked balls with just one other person so youre only touching your ball. We found, really, people who enjoy sports have been able to really adjust to social distancing.But you can see the top three states are Maryland, the District, and Virginia. And so there is still significant virus circulating here. That is followed by Nebraska, Illinois  because of Chicago  and what weve talked about before about Minnesota. So those are our top states as far as still having high number of test positives.When I say high number of test positives, theyre all under 20 percent. If I had shown you this slide four weeks ago, half of the country would have been over 20 percent. So this also shows progress, but also very clearly about the region were living in right now with disease.Next slide.Now, I wanted you to see this as a metro, because thats as a state level. So we look at this in multiple different ways. The number one metro with the highest positivity rate is the District of Columbia, which includes Northern Virginia and Maryland  Montgomery County and PG County. That is followed by Baltimore, Chicago, and Minneapolis. And so these are the places where we have seen really a stalling or an increase of cases, as in Minneapolis.You can see all the other metros  all the other metros are almost all exclusively below 10 percent. So we see this as great progress across the board in the metro areas.Next slide.So we also look at daily cases and daily case numbers. And I know that you all know that thats a very erratic  and it depends sometimes on how the tests were reported, how the cases were reported, and so you often have to look at it over a three or sevenday period. This is looking at daily cases on a sevenday rolling average. You can see the number one  the top peak that has now come down dramatically  is the New York metro area.Underneath that, you can see our concerns about Chicago and our concern in the yellow line of the Washington, D.C. area, because these are two areas that went through the logarithmic phase and are now at a high plateau with an unchanging number of cases day over day. Thats the orange line and the yellow line.You can see that the daily case numbers, per hundred thousand, are below the yellow line and the orange line of Washington, D.C. and Chicago. And thats New York, Boston, and many of the others. Providence is also up as a per hundred thousand. And thats the way we like to look at it, because we can really then understand it in relationship to population.The other groups that have very low levels that once had a peak  this is Detroit, a very low level now. This is Boston in the gray, which has come way down also. And you can see down here is Atlanta and Miami.Next slide.Now, sometimes, and I think recently, there have been publications about where the world was before we started the Stop the Spread and before many states shut down. And to just to take you back to that moment On March 14th, before Stop the Spread, this is showing New York. I didnt even put March 14th on there because New York, on March 14th, had less than 50 cases reported. Chicago had less than 10. Washington had less than 10. LA had less than 20. The large state, at that time, that had a significant number of cases was the Washington area  Washington State, which had 100 cases.On March 14th, we had about 500 cases distributed around the United States, not in any dramatic hotspot per se, but the majority of those cases and the hotspot at that moment was Washington State. This is how the New York metro area, which includes obviously northern New Jersey, northern parts of Pennsylvania, parts of Connecticut and Rhode Island, and the dramatic decline that theyve had in the number of cases. And I know you know that also mortality has started to decrease in that northern New Jersey and New York area.Next slide.But I wanted you to see how we bring all this information together on a daily basis. The red line in this graphic are the emergency room visits. So those are the syndromic visits that I discussed with you at the beginning. The blue line is the test positive. And again, its very erratic because of the reporting of when cases sometimes from the entire weekend are added on a Monday morning. And then you can see the actual case numbers in the black bars.And so thats how we bring everything together. And what we want to see is all of the  all of the items trending down. We want to see the number of positives that you find, because we really have states now looking for asymptomatic cases. So we want to ensure that both asymptomatic cases, symptomatic cases are all declining as shown in the blue line that emergency room visits are declining and the actual case numbers are declining together. And of course, then theres mortality behind that in the green lines that are  green bars that are hard for you to see.Next slide.But this is the Washington area. And so thats why I wanted you to see that contrast. You can see theres not been that dramatic decline in the blue line. Theres not been that dramatic decline in the black bars of cases. And theres not been a dramatic decline in the emergency room visits with COVIDlike illnesses.So even though Washington has remained closed, LA has remained closed, Chicago has remained closed, we still see these ongoing cases. And Ive asked the CDC, and the CDC is working with the local areas in Chicago, in this area, and LA to really understand where are these new cases coming from and what do we need to do to prevent them in the future.Next slide.This is Chicago. Again, just to show you going up into this high plateau that has been fairly persistent.Next slide.And this is Los Angeles. So you can get a flavor of where we have concerns, of where cities have remained closed and metros that have remained closed but have still persistent high number of cases.Next slide.So then I wanted to talk to you about outbreaks, because throughout this all, theres been a large part of America that has been  and many states  that have been really finding their outbreaks, containing those outbreaks by testing everyone, and doing contact tracing, and then stopping them and stopping those outbreaks in their tracks, what we have been talking about everybody being able to do across the United States.And so this illustrates the counties that have had 100 percent increase in new cases over the last few days  over the last three days.Now, the reason I wanted to show this is because I see more and more graphics out there that talk about cases going up versus cases going down.Just to give you an example of Wyoming  and I think many of the groups now have Wyoming as a red state of cases going up. Wyoming, three days ago, had five cases confirmed and today had  yesterday had nine. So they qualify, almost, and show up as this large increase. We  its a good alert for us. We immediately look and look and see what exactly is happening at the state website.But you can see, when you have very low number of cases, you can have a doubling from 5 to 10 number of cases and show up as 100 percent increase. And so each of these have to be investigated separately to really understand what this is. It is the way we find outbreaks in prisons. Its the way we have been finding outbreaks in nursing homes. And we have this graphic. It goes through all of the counties as well as  next slide.So this is one states analysis. And what they have shown  and they have been able to find each of their outbreaks, contain every one of their outbreaks, close those outbreaks, and call them closed cases.In this case, the dark blue is community spread. The rest of it, 50 percent of their cases, have been coming from outbreaks that theyve been able to contain.The largest group in this is meatpacking plants. And what theyve been doing is going in and testing 100 percent of the individuals in the meatpacking plant, and also finding 100 percent of the individuals that are associated with those individuals in the meatpacking plant. Theyve been able to go into group housing, social gatherings.So just as we discuss all of this, and when you go out for this weekend, Memorial Day, and you want to do some kind of social gathering, its very important to maintain that sixfeet distance and very important to have your mask with you in case that six feet distance cannot be maintained.But it also talks about longterm care facilities. Now, interestingly enough, 50 percent of their total cases, since theyve been tracking, came from these outbreaks. Almost 70 plus percent  76 of all their mortality, though, came from these outbreaks.And this is why we have been really pushing both in the original Opening up America Again, in the testing blueprint. We talk about proactive surveillance, proactive monitoring and testing in areas that you know are particularly susceptible to outbreaks.Every state has this knowledge now and this type of analysis. And so when they have these kinds of analysis, what were asking them to do is proactively go and test everyone in meatpacking plants, to proactively go and test 100 percent of the residents and workers, and then a followup of the workers in every single longterm care facility.And this is to find the asymptomatic cases. I know CDC yesterday released that they thought 35 percent. We started with the understanding that we thought it was around 11 to 15 percent, based on the experience with one of the Princesses. But now we know its at least 35. It may be greater than that because it may be so age dependent that there may be a lot of people under 30 that have the virus and are shedding the virus and arent aware that they have the virus. And so, proactive monitoring, proactive testing will become absolutely critical to find these asymptomatic cases.Next slide.So this is my last slide. And this is just to show you what an outbreak looks like. So if you look at this axis, its normalized through 100,000 population. But you can see  this is what we want to see. We want to see very low case number. We want to see that theyve identified an outbreak, they tested 100 percent, theyve contained 100 percent, and then they dont find any more cases.And so this is whats happening across the country, county by county  this is a county map  to really show you the work thats going on. And since the last two months, weve gone from, I think, less than 4,000 contact tracers to nearly 50,000 contact tracers. And this is whats been happening behind the scenes.But I really want to applaud the governors and state and health and local  the health  the health commissioners and the local health departments who have really been working quietly, in an unassuming way, to really find these cases, track these cases, isolate these cases, and ensure theres no additional spread. And you can see, in many of these instances, theyve gone more than two weeks without any additional spread.And so this is what we are hoping goes across the United States. Now, we all have to admit, its going to be much more difficult in metro areas because you have to really identify where are those asymptomatic cases and how will you find them. And its why theres been a lot of additional resources go in  going into disadvantaged areas, into the federal community clinics to be able to proactively be able to test for this virus and find asymptomatic individuals.When someone gets sick with COVID  excuse me  when someone gets sick with COVID, youve  youve heard the cases some of them have very high fevers, and so theyre not out walking around. So they may have been shedding virus for one or two days before they got significantly ill and they had to be in bed because they felt so terrible.Now, think of that. They were maybe out two days. And so if theyre 50 percent of the cases, theyre only out for two of the days that they may be spreading virus. An asymptomatic individual that doesnt know they have COVID, they may be spreading and shedding the entire time that theyre in the community. So instead of two days, it may be six days or it may be seven days.And so when we talk about proportions, 35 percent that are asymptomatic, that are out in the community, is very  is much more opportunity for transmission than someone who is getting sick and is only out in the community for two days. And so we know we have to find both, and weve been working with states about what proactive surveillance would look like in this case to find people who are asymptomatic.But its also why we continue to recommend to the public, very clearly, that you cant tell whos infected. And so thats why you have to continue to social distance, that why  thats why you need to continue to maintain six feet apart.I remember in the early days of HIV, people told me all the time that they could  they knew who was infected. And I would say, You dont know whos infected. I could be infected. Youre just saying you dont think Im infected because I look healthy. Theres a lot of healthy people out there with COVID that look healthy.And so were asking continuously for you all to be outside, to enjoy your Memorial Day weekend, to play golf, to hike, as Dr. Fauci said, to play tennis with marked balls, and to be out with your families that you have been in the household with, and to even consider sharing social distance space, as long as you have utensils that are  belong to individuals and that maybe can be thrown out immediately. Theres a lot of things to think through. I know you can do this. I know the American people can do it.And so, please, as you go out this weekend, understand you can go out. You can be outside. You can play golf. You can play tennis with marked balls. You can go to the beaches if you stay six feet apart. But remember that that is your space, and thats the space that you need to protect and ensure that your social distanced from others. Thank you.