James S. Brady Press Briefing Room335 P.M. EDTMS. MCENANY Good afternoon, everyone. Id like to begin by detailing the historic privatepublic partnership effort launched by the Trump administration to combat the coronavirus. As both a businessman and as President, youll all remember thencandidate Donald Trump, now President Donald Trump, being adamant about bringing manufacturing jobs back to America.President Obama and the Democrats had given up on manufacturing with President Obamas erroneously prediction that Trump would need a magic wand in order to bring back American jobs. Not so.The reality is President Trump revived manufacturing in this country, and he tore up disastrous trade deals that hemorrhaged American jobs, like NAFTA and like the plan that was in work, the TransPacific Partnership. Instead, he put in place better trade deals to bring back American jobs and to bring back American manufacturing.And in the battle against the invisible enemy, President Trump took action to shore up our domestic supply chains in order to deliver the necessary PPE and other medical equipment to the states.Speaker Pelosi and House Democrats are currently promoting a 3trilliondollar liberal wish list, among a litany of Democrat priorities immaterial to the coronavirus crisis, are embedded in this, and one would require the President to appoint a, quote, medical supplies response coordinator who would, quote, serve as the point of contact for the healthcare system, supply chain officials, and the states on medical supplies.Im happy to report this individual already exists. This bill ignores reality, because the medical supplies official is in existence hes been working on this since March to deliver, to date, over billions and billions  more than 1 billion, I should say, pieces of PPE to countries and hospitals across the country.Since March 29th, Rear Admiral John Polowczyk, Vice Director for Logistics for the Joint Chiefs, has been on the job as the head of FEMAs Supply Chain Stabilization Task Force. This is a historic partnership with the private sector, and under the leadership of President Trump, FEMA directed the greatest mobilization of the private sector since World War Two.Rear Admiral Polowczyk and FEMA quickly realized the power of the private sector in addressing the coronavirus, recognizing that the six largest private sector medical distributors would have the ability to source, procure, manufacture, and deliver as many as 1 billion pieces of PPE in a single week. That is an extraordinary volume by our private sector. And at the direction of President Trump, Rear Admiral Polowczyk and FEMA were able to harness this power.Every day at 900 a.m., Rear Admiral Polowczyks team huddles with these six large private sector medical distributors and, together, they review data compiled by Dr. Birx, as well as information provided by the CDC, to set priorities and ensure sufficient levels of supplies go down not just to the county level but to the hospital level.After focusing geographically, Rear Admiral Polowczyk and his team orients the data to set pointofcare distribution priorities for public hospitals, VA and DOD facilities, private hospitals, nursing homes, acute cli  excuse me, acute care clinics, first responders, and labs.In just two and a half weeks, Rear Admiral Polowczyk and his team were able to combine data streams, utilize supply chain visualization tools from DOD, and input data into the cloud. This system is now available to generate reports for governors showing what their state received from the federal government and commercial partners all the way down to the hospital level, as I noted.And thanks to President Trump and his administration, governors now have visibility as to where their supplies are sent and where theyre received. And from March 1st through May 10th, this publicprivate partnership has led to the delivery  and these are extraordinary numbers  of over 113 million N95 respirator masks, nearly half a billion surgical masks, nearly 18 million face shields, and over 12 billion gloves. That is a lot of PPE, and we thank our private sector partners for engaging in this effort with us.Also, I just wanted to note that, earlier today, the President held an hourlong call with thousands of Hispanic community, business, and faith leaders across the country. He recognized the many contributions of the Hispanic community to our country and addressed important issues, like how to reopen their businesses and build the greatest economy in history again.And finally, before I take questions, I just wanted to note on a separate note that I wanted to acknowledge the passing of Ravi Zacharias, a renowned Christian apologist who left this world yesterday. Our prayers are with Ravis family during this time. He meant a lot to a lot of people around this administration. And as my father said, Billy Graham was the great evangelist and Ravi Zacharias was the great apologist. And we are all thinking about him and holding him close to our hearts and his family today.And with that, Ill take questions. John.