James S. Brady Press Briefing Room240 P.M. EDTMS. MCENANY Hello, everyone. Sorry were a little late today. As you know, the President had two events this morning, so we didnt want our unprecedented transparency to get in the way of lunch, so were glad that you all had a few moments there to eat. So our delay was hopefully useful and helpful to you guys.I have an announcement on the Trump administrations unwavering support for our farmers. Today, Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue and senior advisor Ivanka Trump announced the launch of the Farmers to Families Food Box program. This is a 3 billion program to support farmers and provide food to our most vulnerable communities. Senior advisor Ivanka Trump and Secretary Perdue are doing very good work.Now I would like to focus on the Trump administrations unprecedented coronavirus response. Some have erroneously suggested that the Trump administration threw out the pandemic response playbook left by the ObamaBiden administration. What the critics fail to note, however, is that this thin packet of paper was replaced by two detailed, robust pandemic response reports commissioned by the Trump administration. So we exchanged this one, which I will hand over to my assistant, Lyndee, for these two pandemic response plans.In 2018, the Trump administration issued our Pandemic Crisis Action Plan, one of the binders that I just handed to Lyndee. Further, from August 13th to the 16th, the Trump administration conducted the Crimson Contagion 2019 Functional Exercise. This was a pandemicstimulationsimulation to test the nations ability to respond to a largescale outbreak.In January of 2020, HHS issued the Crimson Contagion 2019 Functional Exercise AfterAction Report. That was one of the additional documents that I just handed over. This exercise expounded upon  exposed, rather, the shortcomings in legacy planning documents, which inform President Trumps coronavirus response, beginning as early as January. And those legacy planning document shortcomings were, in fact, the papers that I just handed over, that were provided to us by the ObamaBiden administration.For example, President Trumps Crimson AfterAction Report highlighted that the Obamaera policy directive from November 2016, quote  and Im quoting from the document  Does not provide the requisite mechanisms or processes to effectively lead the coordination of the federal governments response. Instead, President Trump established the White House Coronavirus Task Force and put Vice President Pence in charge of the interagency response. These were effective decisions, and they undoubtedly enhanced our response to the coronavirus.Furthermore, what Crimson Contagion taught us is that President Trump was right all along about misguided economic and trade policies that left Americans vulnerable to pandemics.In June 2016  so, many, many years ago  thenbusinessman Donald Trump said this quote, America became the worlds dominant economy by becoming the worlds dominant producerI have visited cities and towns across this country where a third or even half of manufacturing jobs have been wiped out in the last 20 years. Today, we import nearly 800 billion more in goods than we export. This is not some natural disaster. It is politicianmade disaster. That was thencandidate Trump, who has now implemented those policies as President Trump.And this forwardthinking vision contrasted with that of President Obama who said, quote, Trump just says, Well, Im going to negotiate a better deal. Well, what  how exactly are you going to negotiate that? What magic wand do you have? That magic wand was ripping up TransPacific Partnership. It was ripping up NAFTA. It was replacing it with the U.S.MexicoCanada Agreement, a great deal for automakers and our farmers. And it was ending Chinas predatory trade policies and negotiating a historic phase one China deal. That is what this President has done.Yesterday, President Trump went to Allentown, Pennsylvania, and visited Owens  Minor, Inc. This was a clear example of domestic manufacturing at work. You saw this administration taking action to restructure and secure our stockpile of medical supplies. President Trump released a plan to restructure the Strategic National Stockpile yesterday, and he signed an executive order providing the authority to ensure America is producing critical goods necessary to build up our strategic stockpiles.The Presidents trip was an example of what hes been saying all along that America must manufacture, that America must produce, here, in our interior.Additionally, the President launched Project Air Bridge to bring supplies from all over the world to support Americas frontline healthcare workers. The administration partnered with the private sector to secure donations and production of PPE and other medical supplies. And President Trump effectively leveraged the Defense Production Act, otherwise known as the DPA, to mobilize our country to manufacture and secure massive amounts of PPE and ventilators.Through Project Air Bridge, to date, more than 1.4 million N95 respirators have been delivered, as well as 90  921 million gloves, 17.1 million surgical gowns, and more.The Trump playbook and the wholeofAmerica response to this pandemic has far exceeded what this administration inherited.And finally, President Trump took action before the pandemic to anticipate and gameplan such scenarios. President Trump streamlined the National Security Council in 2018 by creating a counterproliferation and biodefense directorate. This directorate combined NSC experts focused on biological threats under a single and more senior leader, and did away with a confusing organizational chart that required some experts to report to two bosses simultaneously.In short, the NSC retained the same number of experts focused on biological threats that the Obama administration had, but honed them in and focused them more and house them in a more coherent structure and with a more senior leader.Id also note that this directorate, which exists today, is the same office that critics allege, to this day, that President Trump eliminated. I hope in your reporting you are now able to debunk this claim.Recognizing the seriousness of biological threats, President Trump released a series of strategic documents to transform our preparedness for biological incidents, including pandemics. In September of 2018, President Trump released the National Biodefense Strategy. In May of 2019, he released the Global Health Security Strategy. And in September of 2019, he signed an EO to modernize influenza vaccines.His leadership is evident in the early days of this pandemic and in the preparation before that. And these actions Ive outlined today, these plans I noted, helped us as we approached what was an unprecedented crisis. It helped us to deploy our resources and to deliver what I believe is the one of the best responses weve seen in this countrys history.And, with that, Ill take questions. John.