Rose Garden415 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Were here today to provide an update on the unprecedented testing capacity developed by the United States  the most advanced and robust testing system anywhere in the world, by far. This afternoon, Ill also announce new steps that were taking to make tests even more widely available.To battle a virus, my administration marshaled every resource at our nations disposal public, private, military, economic, scientific, and industrial  all at your disposal. We launched the largest manufacturing rampup since the Second World War. Theres been nothing like it since.At the center of this industrial and scientific mobilization was the development of our coronavirus testing capabilities. In the span of just a few short months, weve developed a testing capacity unmatched and unrivaled anywhere in the world, and its not even close. This is a core element of our plan to safely and gradually reopen America. And were opening, and were starting, and theres enthusiasm like I havent seen in a long time.Every American should be proud of the amazing array of talent, skill, and enterprise our nation has brought to this challenge. In three months, the FDA has authorized more than 92 different tests, and over 9 million have been performed here in the United States. Three weeks ago, we were conducting roughly 150,000 tests per day. Now were doing approximately 300,000 tests per day  a 100 percent increase  and it will go up substantially from that number.This week, the United States will pass 10 million tests conducted  nearly double the number of any other country. Were testing more people per capita than South Korea, the United Kingdom, France, Japan, Sweden, Finland, and many other countries  and, in some cases, combined.On Friday, the FDA authorized coronavirus antigen tests, an alternative testing technology that can be much more readily manufactured. Quidel Corporation, which makes this newly authorized pointofcare test, estimates that it will be able to manufacture 150,000 tests per day, immediately increasing to 300,000 tests per day within just a few weeks.To further expand our nations testing capabilities, this afternoon I am announcing that my administration is  and that weve got this all approved its all done  is sending 1 billion to Americas states, territories, and tribes. So this has all been approved. Weve gotten it done, completed. The money is going out. This major investment will ensure that America continues to conduct more tests than any country on Earth by far.I said from the beginning that the federal government would back up the states and help them build their testing capability and capacities, and thats exactly whats happened. This partnership has truly flourished. We have really had a very good relationship with the states and the governors and other representatives within the states  a relationship like, I think I can honestly say, has not been seen in this country for many, many years.The governors and us are working together very closely not only on testing, but on ventilators, where we have a capacity thats, at this point, virtually unlimited. And were sending ventilators  as you probably heard from other countries, were sending many, many thousands of ventilators to other countries because theyre in tremendous need. And I think building up a lot of goodwill, but much more importantly than that, were saving a lot of lives.Most states are now doing a great job. My administration located 5,000 machines in 700 labs across all 50 states, and governors have learned how to maximize these testing resources.The federal government is also supporting states with vital supplies, quick approvals of new tests, and oneonone coaching from the team here at the White House on how to increase capacity and increase it very quickly.In recent weeks, weve held multiple conference calls with every state, as well as with D.C. and Puerto Rico. We jointly developed testing projections and goals for each state for the month of May, altogether totaling 12.9 million tests. Think of that 12.9 million tests.Today, Im announcing that my administration will provide the collection supplies to help states meet their targets and meet them rapidly.During the month of May, FEMA and HHS will be delivering 12.9 million swabs to states nationwide. We already have them the delivery will be very quick. Were prepared to provide millions of additional swabs if any state is on a pace to surpass its goal. And their goals are very high. Weve set them very high, and weve told them to set them very high.My administration will also provide approximately 9 million transport media, which are used to transfer swabs to the lab processing. A complicated process, but weve made it simple. As a result of these actions, every single state will be able to test more people per capita in May alone than South Korea has tested in four months since the outbreak began.This major commitment is possible because of the massive mobilization of American industry, including Puritan Medical Products, U.S. Cotton, Abbott Labs, and Thermo Fisher. Some of these incredible companies produced and produce rapidly for us, and their products are here with us this afternoon. These are all different products that were literally just developed, and  if you can imagine that. And these are the best machines and the best equipment anywhere in the world. And other countries are calling us, and were trying to work as much as we can, not only on ventilators, but also with testing.My administration also continues our tireless effort to expand testing in the most underserved communities. Through our partnership with the private sector, leading pharmacies and retailers are now operating over 240 testing sites across the country, and thats in addition to all of the other sites that we have working. Seventy percent of these sites are located in communities with unique vulnerabilities.There will be more than 300 sites by the end of this week, and retailers are making plans to open up hundreds and hundreds more locations within the next 30 days. These additional sites are helping us ensure access to testing in every community. My administration is fighting relentlessly to protect all citizens of every color and creed from this terrible virus, the invisible enemy.In addition to vast amounts of testing supplies, my administration has partnered with the private sector to coordinate the delivery of more than 90 million N95 masks, and these are of the highest quality  many are made right here in the United States, a capacity we didnt have at all at the beginning  126 million surgical masks  likewise, many are made here 9 million face shields 21 million surgical gowns993 million gloves and 10,690 ventilators. Were building thousands of ventilators in numerous plants all across our country. Its incredible, actually.This global pandemic has inflicted great pain and hardship on our people. It should have never been allowed to happen. It should have been stopped at the source. We mourn for every life the virus has claimed, and we share the grief of all of you who have lost a loved one  and that goes worldwide, too. Many, many countries  184 countries, at least.Thanks to the courage of our citizens and our aggressive strategy, hundreds of thousands of lives have been saved. And we have saved  and if you look at on a per100,000 basis, were at the best part of the pack, right on the bottom. Germany and us are leading the world. Germany and the United States are leading the world  lives saved per hundred thousand.In every generation, through every challenge and hardship and danger, America has risen to the task. We have met the moment, and we have prevailed. Americans do whatever it takes to find solutions, pioneer breakthroughs, and harness the energies we need to achieve a total victory.Day after day, were making tremendous strides. With the dedication of our doctors and nurses  these are incredible people, these are brave people, these are warriors  with the devotion of our manufacturing workers, food suppliers, and lab technicians, and with the profound patriotism of the American people, we will defeat this horrible enemy, we will revive our economy, and we will transition into greatness. Thats a phrase youre going to hear a lot because thats whats going to happen.Were going into the third quarter, and were going to do well. In the fourth quarter, were going to do very good. And next year, I think were going to have one of the best years weve ever had because theres a tremendous pentup demand. Its a demand  and Im feeling it. Ive felt things a lot over my life, and Ive made a lot of good calls. Its a demand like I dont think Ive ever seen. Theres a pentup demand. Theres a  theres a spirit of this country like few have seen. And I think you can say  and weve helped a lot of the countries a lot. Really, a lot. Theres a tremendous spirit all over the world to beat this terrible, terrible thing.But were transitioning to greatness, and the greatness is going to be in the fourth quarter, but its really going to be next year, and its going to be a year like weve never had before. I really believe that. As good as weve done  and weve done great we had the best economy in the history of the world, not just here, but anywhere in the world. You can talk China, you can talk any other country, we had the best economy anywhere in the world.And we were going for numbers, whether it was unemployment numbers, where we had our best numbers employment, also, numbers  a little different  where we had our best numbers, almost 160 million people. All of that  we had the greatest stock market numbers ever. I think we had 142 days where we set records in a short period of time. A hundred and fiftytwo days we set records in the stock market. We rebuilt our military, all built in the United States. All of our equipment built  1.5 trillion plus.On the southern border, the wall is being built. Its being built rapidly. And now you dont hear the opponents talking too much about the border. They dont like to talk about it because it seemed that we were right on a lot of things. One of the things we were right about  one of the many things was the border. We have a very powerful border. Now, we had one of the best weeks in the history of our border, between the United States and Mexico  our southern border. We have very few people coming in  very, very few. Almost record low numbers.And the wall is being built. Its up to 181 miles already. Its being built. Its being built rapidly. People dont talk about it anymore because its very successful. In the area where the wall has built  that is a lot still, but we want to be up to 450 by a very short period of time. Early next year, we should be up to 450. And very shortly after that, over 500 miles to be completed.But its had a tremendous impact. But again, weve had the best numbers. The last thing we want now with this pandemic is for people to come across our southern border. And again, were doing record numbers, meaning record low numbers.So I just want to thank everybody, and I want to introduce Admiral Giroir  if you could, please come up  and Brad, if you would  Brad Smith. And theyre going to do a little explaining as to what weve done with regard to testing and how successful its been. And then well take some questions after that.Thank you very much.ADMIRAL GIROIR Well, thank you, Mr. President, for your leadership and for your high expectations that really made this all come together and for the uniform support of everyone in the White House and the administration. And thank you, Secretary Azar, for providing his leadership at HHS and allowing both Brad and I the opportunity to work on this project.I think its clear that America does lead the world in testing. Ill go through some of the charts that show that we lead quantitatively. I will also suggest that we lead in the diversity of tests, which are very important to establish the testing ecosystem to keep America safe. And clearly, as weve said multiple times, no one beats America when it comes to quality.So lets start potentially with the next slide.This may be hard to see, but if you look at the line on top, thats the total numbers of tests done by the United States. No other country in the world comes close to the total numbers. Again, as the President has said, today we will top over 9 million tests. And if you look at per capita  everyone talks about South Korea being the standard  today, we will have done more than twice the per capita rate of testing that was accomplished in South Korea. No matter how you look at it, America is leading the world in testing.And how did we get there? Lets look at the next slide. Next slide please.A very important component of how we came to this point was the authorization by the FDA, under the leadership of our Secretary, of many different diagnostic tests, of diagnostic devices, and now of serology tests.So youve heard a lot about the different testing and you see some of the machines up here. Most of the diagnostic tests  all but one  rely on the amplification of the viral RNA, the viral genetic material. And weve talked to you about the diversity of tests. There are very highthroughput tests that are done at big reference labs like LabCorp and Quest. But very importantly, there are also tests  and you heard us talk about Cepheid, delivering over 2 million tests vitally important to rural Americas  and to places that do not have very large infrastructure.Youve also seen the Abbott tests weve talked about  there it is on the left of the President  delivering about 1.4 million tests as a pointofcare test. You get the result within 5 to 15 minutes. And we have deployed over 235,000 of these tests to the state public health laboratories in every state of this country to make sure that that pointofcare testing capability is there to research outbreaks, like in nursing homes or in certain industrial capacities, and well over 90,000 to the Indian Health Service, so they could test at a point of care in remote locations.The President also talked about a new firstinclass test its listed there as an antigenbased test. This is very important  and youve heard Ambassador Birx talk about this multiple times  because antigen testing, although complex, is much less complex than the nucleic acid testing that weve had.Quidel had this authorized by the FDA. And as the President said, well soon be making over 300,000 tests per day. Do the math. Thats 9 million pointofcare tests that we will have every month in just a few weeks. It will clearly add to and, to a certain degree, transform our landscape.What you dont see up here is the important work the FDA did. Im a swab guy now. Im very interested in swabs. In order to make all these tests work, you have to show that a certain swab, made of a certain material, performed in a certain way, delivers a highly accurate result.And what youre seeing up here is some of the fruits of that labor. Without the authorizations of, for example, the foam nasal swab, we would be blowing through PPE all across the country because of the need for full PPE just to take a test. That has really been changed by this diverse authorization and a recent authorization that allows the great manufacturer, U.S. Cotton, to join our foundational industry of Puritan.Next slide.Last week, we did over 1.9 million tests, and that number is growing. And again, as the President said and Brad will talk about, our states aspire to do well over 12 million tests over the next four weeks.You see the graph growing. What you also see very importantly is that little orange bar on the bottom is the cumulative number of positives. Our percent positives are going down, and thats what we want to see. In fact, in 31 states as of last night, the positivity rate is less than 10 percent, which is not a litmus test, but is a good idea that were doing plenty enough testing that we can enter phase one for careful reopening.I also want to take the opportunity to say this doesnt happen by accident. Im seeing everyone in the audience here, and Im so pleased that they can be here. People sitting in the front have been working, literally, 18 to 20 hours a day, every single day of the week, for at least the past two months. None of this happens by accident. It happens because their hard work, their sacrifice, their sacrifice to their family all for a common good. And Im very, very honored to consider you all as my colleagues.And my last slide, as the President said, 11 billion are now being announced to be delivered to the states for the sole support of testing. This will give them the resources to partner, as they have, with the federal government, with the President, the Vice President, the task force, with Brad and I, to achieve their testing goals. And were going to be very specific, and they know it, that there needs to be minimum numbers to be planned to test. They have to have plans for their vulnerable communities, including nursing homes, including those who are disabled, including those who are in prisons or who have working environments that they may have a more likelihood to spread the infection.And combined with that, the Secretarys Office of Minority Health will soon be awarding a large contract to guarantee a national network of state, local, and communitybased organizations to assure that those underserved, particularly racial and ethnic minorities, are linked to the services that they need  not only testing, but in care as well.And with that, Id like to hand it over to Brad Smith, whos the Director of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation, but has really been the chief operating officer to make all of this come together.Brad.MR. SMITH Thank you, Admiral. I want to talk through a little bit, specifically the work that weve been doing with the states.So, as the Admiral mentioned, over the past few weeks, weve been working with each state to set a target for their testing goal for May. With  over the series of a couple of different calls, weve aligned on what those goals are. And as the Admiral mentioned and the President mentioned, they add up to over 12.9 million tests in the month of May.For every state, this is greater than 2 percent of their population in the entire state being tested in May, and for many states, its a much higher number than that. When you compare this, as the President mentioned, to South Korea, South Korea is actually below that 2 percent not for a month, but for their total tests to date since the start of the year. And so our states have come together to set really ambitious goals that were excited to support them in meeting.If you go to the next slide. As I talked about last time in the press briefing, there are really three parts to making sure that tests can happen. The first part is the specimen collection supplies, the second part is the machines, and the third part are the lab supplies that the machines need to run. And what weve been working to do is to make sure that each state has all three of those parts to be able to conduct the number of tests.The first part is the specimencollection supplies. The commercial market today is providing a large number of these supplies already to states and already to hospitals, but we wanted to ensure that every state had more than what they needed to be able to conduct the number of tests theyre aiming in May. So what weve done is weve purchased enough tests to support the state testing goals for May and June. So we will be sending more than 12.9 million swabs and over 10 million media to the states over the course of May, and a similar or greater number over the course of June.In addition, we have several million in reserve. So if states are able to exceed their goal in third and fourth week of May, we can provide them even more swabs and transport media. And again, this is in addition to whats already available on the commercial market.If you go to the next slide. There are large numbers that have been talked about many times  a large number of testing machines across the country, over 5,000 different machines that can conduct these tests. The key part is making sure that the machines and that the labs have enough supplies to run the machines. There will be, in the month of May, commercially produced, over 25 million test kits, which is either the PCR and extraction kits or the cartridges, to be able to support tests in their effort  states in their testing effort.And what weve been working to do with each state is understand their total goal. And each of the manufacturers has been a great partner with us and told us how many tests theyre shipping to each lab in each state over the course of May. And what we know is that, in the aggregate, the number of test kits the state is getting is greater than their testing goal for the month of May.In addition to what the states have already purchased, theres over 7 million additional tests that remain unpurchased  the majority of those from Thermo Fisher, which is the most common machine in the country. So we feel very confident that states will not only have the specimencollection supplies and the machines, but also the extraction kits and the reagents they need to be able to hit or potentially exceed their testing goals.And if you go to the last slide. The last piece of the puzzle is making sure that Americans have access to these tests. Healthcare providers, hospitals, primary care physicians are already providing these tests today. And we, for the past six or seven weeks, have been partnering with the retailers who have massively been ramping up their effort.Today there are over 240 retail sites. Weve been working with the retailers to make sure that theyre specifically targeting lowincome and other vulnerable communities across the country, and we are talking with them about potentially opening more than another thousand additional sites over the next month or two.So we hope that weve put together the right pieces of the puzzle having access points for patients and Americans across the country, having the specimencollection supplies needed to take the test, having the machines, and then also having the lab testing supplies with the machines.So, thank you very much.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much, Brad. And maybe youll both stay there. Could be some questions.Okay. Please, John. Go ahead.