James S. Brady Press Briefing Room432 P.M. EDTMS. MCENANY Good afternoon, everyone. Id like to direct your attention to a very encouraging graph regarding test results. Itll be over my shoulder and hopefully on the screen for those of you watching on television. As this chart shows, the United States has, to date, completed 7.5 million coronavirus tests. Its an extraordinary number. And, as you can see, the United States leads the world in testing.This graph is no accident. In fact, this graph is a testament to American innovation, including the work of the Trump administration. For example, the FDA has issued over 70 emergency use authorizations to expand testing capacity to accelerate the development of therapeutics and vaccines. There are nearly 80 clinical trials ongoing with an additional 30 clinical trials expected.This graph is also a testament to the American people who have been  and its no exaggeration  American warriors, as theyve followed social distancing guidelines and taken steps to ensure that the health and safety of our vulnerable populations is protected.Finally, I would like to note that this graph indicates that the U.S. has conducted double the number of tests conducted in other countries. The U.S. is providing leadership during this crisis, not only leading the world in testing, but also taking steps to help allies around the world  steps we are able to take only because of this countrys incredible ingenuity and work ethic.As youre well aware, President Trump has consistently sided with the experts and has always prioritized the health and safety of the American people. This includes issuing guidance that meant hardworking Americans had to stay home, social distance, and slow the spread of the virus. The hard work of Americans saved many lives, and we salute the great citizens of this country for your hard work.As Americans across the country stayed home and businesses temporarily shut their doors, President Trump ensured American employees and employers would receive the help that they needed. The Paycheck Protection Program provided forgivable loans to smallbusiness owners who kept their employees on payroll.To date, 2.3 million smallbusiness loans have been processed, with the average loan being 76,000. In other words, meaning that the small businesses that needed the help the most got it. I would remind everyone that, of the 1.6 million loans given out in the first tranche of spending, one million of those went to businesses with 10 or fewer employees. So it truly has gone to those who need it most.Joe Shamess is a smallbusiness owner. Joe, with his cofounder Brian Steorts are two veteran special operators in the military who started Flags of Valor in 2015. Its a veteranowned, veteranrun manufacturing company located not too far from here in Virginia.Flags of Valor builds wooden flags, among other products. Theyve employed, over their years, 65 veterans and have raised over 1 million for veteran charities. Flags of Valor is also proud to have 97,000 hours of American manufacturing labor under their belt. Thats a lot of hours.At the start of this crisis, Joe had to furlough four of his employees, in addition to imposing a 50 percent pay cut. His employees were, of course, disappointed but they were, quote, in his words, all in, in the fight against the coronavirus.Everything changed for Joe and his furloughed employees when he applied for the PPP loan. Just this week, he was approved for that PPP loan that enabled Flags of Valor to rehire its furloughed employees and to boost paychecks back to precoronavirus levels. PPP was a huge lifeline for us, Joe told me. He called it a lifesaver.This is a perfect example of why President Trump fought for additional PPP funding and will continue to fight for small businesses and American heroes like Joe. Joe is here with me today, and Id like to invite him to come up.Joe, thank you so much for your service. Thank you for all the great work youve done for our veterans and being a veteran yourself. I wanted to see if youd take to the podium for a minute or two and share your message of hope with the American people.MR. SHAMESS Id love to. Thank you, Kayleigh, and thank you, President Trump, for allowing me to be here today. Ive got a couple props. This is examples of one of our products that we make, and heres another one. This one, my son Gabriel made.And when  when you talk about hope and whats going on, its a  its a challenging time for small business. We lost twothirds of our revenue like that. Gone. And so trying to get that back, and when you think about a small business that generally is running maybe its 10 to 20 percent profit margin, twothirds is a killer.And so when you think about the Paycheck Protection Program, the two biggest fixed costs for most businesses is people and property. And thats exactly what the PPP focused on.So, for us, it was a lifesaver. It was an absolute game changer. We went from trying to figure out how we were going to limit our cash burn every single day to stay alive as long as we could, with as many people as we could, to finally bring them back. And when you have to furlough someone, Im telling you, it is one of the worst things you can do because youre talking about family. These are people. These are their  their wives, their husbands, their children. Theyre a part of your ethos.And so what weve experienced has been challenging, sure. But when there hasnt been all the revenue, theres been people helping other people. And the way we approached it was, how can we be better? How can we exit COVID19 a better version of ourselves? How can we innovate?And so we saw people like the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the SBA step in. We saw our partners at Under Armour step in. We saw innovation  you see companies making respirator masks. You see all kinds of stuff going on. And we created the flag boat kit because families were at home with their kids. They didnt know what to do with their children. And we believe this is our nations family crest. So, what better thing than allow families to build American flags together and talk about that and what it means?And then we started a twiceaday, daily pledge at 900 a.m. in the morning on the East Coast and again at 900 a.m. on the West Coast. Every day weve got thousands of kids and their families joining us to say the Pledge of Allegiance. Its phenomenal. And all thats happening by people coming together, by people thinking and innovating.And  and I cant tell you enough how grateful we are to the U.S. government, the bipartisanship that took place to pass the Paycheck Protection Program. It was all hands on deck. It wasnt like  there was no script for this. And they built the parachute on the way down.And when you think about it, you want to talk about the Lakers got it or somebody else got it  think about the millions of businesses that are being benefitted by this. And its, I think, 47 percent of U.S. privatesector employees are in small businesses. They work for small businesses.And so, all the big businesses we love, they started as small businesses. And I hope to be a big business someday, but for now, Im happy to be alive. Im thankful for your support. And thank you, Kayleigh, for letting me be here.So, join us at FlagsofValor.com. Thank you.MS. MCENANY Joe, if you want to take a seat with the reporters, you can ask me some questions.MR. SHAMESS Im happy right here.MS. MCENANY Joe, its veterans like you that make our country great. Its smallbusiness owners like you that are going to bring this country back. And employees like the one we heard from last week  Michael Heup, the employee of Bitty  Beaus Coffee  that keep this country going. So thank you so much for the example youve set and to the hardworking business owners across the country, to the employees across this country who are working during this time. So, thank you, Joe. Thank you for your service.As I said, PPP has changed lives across this country. And as President Trump has said, the American people are warriors and we will fight together to defeat the invisible enemy.And with that, Ill take questions.