James S. Brady Press Briefing Room211 P.M. EDTMS. MCENANY So, good afternoon. I have an announcement for you on hospital funding as appropriated in the third phase of coronavirus relief.The Trump administration will distribute a total of 12 billion in Provider Relief Fund payments to 395 hospitals across the country that have been hardest hit by the COVID19 pandemic. These hospitals have collectively cared for over 70 percent of the 184,000 Americans that required hospital inpatient care. Ten billion of the twelve billion will go towards hospitals treating 100 or more COVID19 admissions. HHS is distributing an additional 2 billion to these 395 hospitals in proportion to the amount of care they provide to lowincome and uninsured patients.This is consistent with our effort to ensure that Americans who need federal government assistance the most receive it. Well be releasing a breakdown of the states receiving this funding and the counties receiving this funding. But for your awareness, New York, New Jersey, and Illinois received the most funding by states, while New York, New York Bronx, New York and Cook, Illinois received the most funding by county as determined by our metrics.Our healthcare providers, as President Trump has repeatedly acknowledged, are our heroes as we work to defeat the invisible enemy. This relief funding will help these heroes defeat this virus. In reacting to CARES relief, I love what this one provider said. So he said, Thank you and God  Thank you and God for this relief. I have tears in my eyes out of gratitude for these funds. Thank you so, so, so much.Additionally, 100 flights as part of Project Airbridge have been completed to date. These flights have expedited nearly 1 billion pieces of PPE for our healthcare heroes.The third phase of coronavirus relief also included 320 billion in additional funding for the Paycheck Protection Program, which, as you all know, provides forgivable loans to small businesses in order to keep their employees on payroll.This program has been extraordinarily successful during the first round of PPP loans 1.6 million loans were issued to small businesses. Of those 1.6 million loans, 1 million of them were given to companies with 10 or fewer employees. So it has gone to small businesses and businesses that need it most.But the PPP  look, its not just another government program. This is supporting everyday Americans who, through no fault of their own, have found themselves in this predicament. We saw this firsthand at the White House on Tuesday.On Tuesday, President Trump welcomed smallbusiness owners and employees to the White House. These small businesses received PPP loans, which helped them pay their employees during the pandemic.Bitty and Beaus was among the small businesses welcomed to the White House. Bitty and Beaus employs 120 people with intellectual and developmental disabilities. Its a coffee shop not too far away from here. Bitty and Beaus had to temporarily close its doors, but because of PPP loans, Bitty and Beaus was able to rehire all of its employees.I had the real honor of getting to meet Michael Heup. Hes one of the employees at Bitty and Beaus, and he offered some words of encouragement to our country. And they really touched my heart, and I think theyll touch the heart of America, if you guys wouldnt mind playing those remarks.A video is played.Michael is an incredible young man. I gave him a call yesterday and asked him what he was up to, and he said he and his fellow employees were literally handwriting notes to put in with their coffee packages that they send out to consumers. I received one of these notes from another company, and it really does put a smile on your face. And Michael is doing that each and every day.And Bitty and Beaus, they represent the hope and opportunity that is on the horizon for Americas workers as their body, their  their business, rather, embodies the American spirit. Workers, like Michael, show that this country is not broken and that we will recover together.Michael, thank you. Youre an American hero. Thank you for sharing that message of hope.And with that, Ill take questions. John.