Rose Garden538 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Thank you. Today Id like to provide you with an update in our war against the coronavirus. Thanks to our comprehensive strategy and extraordinary devotion to our citizens  weve had such tremendous support all over  we continue to see encouraging signs of progress.Cases in New York area, New Orleans, Detroit, Boston, and Houston are declining. Denver, Seattle, Philadelphia, Washington, D.C., Atlanta, Nashville, Indianapolis, and St. Louis are all stable and declining. All parts of the country are either in good shape, getting better. In all cases, getting better. And were seeing very little that were going to look at as a superseding hotspot. Things are moving along. Really, a horrible situation that weve been confronted with, but theyre moving along.As we express our gratitude for these hardfought gains, however, we continue to mourn with thousands of families across the country whose loved ones have been stolen from us by the invisible enemy. We grieve by their side as one family  this great American family. And we do grieve.We also stand in solidarity with the thousands of Americans who are ill and waging a brave fight against the virus. Were doing everything in our power to heal the sick and to gradually reopen our nation, and to safely get our people back to work. They want to get back to work, and they want to get back to work soon. Theres a hunger for getting our country back, and its happening, and its happening faster than people would think.Ensuring the health of our economy is vital to ensuring the health of our nation. These goals work in tandem. They work side by side.Its clear that our aggressive strategy to slow the spread has been working and is saving countless lives. For those who are infected, we have taken unprecedented action to ensure they have the highest level of care anywhere in the world. The federal government has built more than 11,000 extra beds, shipped or delivered hundreds of millions of pieces of personal protective equipment, as you know  in fact, some of the people here are going to be talking about it some of our greatest executives  some of the greatest anywhere in the world  and distributed over 10,000 ventilators.And we now have, in a very short period of time  many have been delivered, and hundreds of thousands are being built. And frankly, every governor has more ventilators right now than they know what to do with. Theyre actually shipping them to different locations, and were shipping some to our allies and others throughout the world, because we have ventilators like  the job that theyve done in getting this very complex piece of equipment built is actually incredible. You dont hear about ventilators anymore except in a positive way.Weve launched the most ambitious testing effort, likewise, on Earth. The United States has now conducted more than 5.4 million tests  nearly double the number tested in any other country. More than twice as much as any other country. Think of that.Moments ago, I came from a meeting with some of our nations largest retailers, including Walmart, Walgreens, CVS, Rite Aid, and Kroger. Were joined by leaders of those great companies. And we also have with us the leaders from the worlds top medical diagnostics companies and suppliers Thermo Fisher, LabCorp, Quest, U.S. Cotton, and the American Clinical Laboratory Association. These are great  great companies.These privatesector leaders, along with others such as Roche, Abbott, Becton Dickinson, Hologic, and Cephe Cepheid, have been exceptional partners in an unprecedented drive to expand the states capabilities and our countrys capabilities. The job theyve done has been incredible. The testing thats been developed and being developed right now has been truly an amazing thing.I want to thank Abbott Laboratories for the job theyve done. I want to thank Roche. And in particular, those two have really stepped forward. Abbott with a fiveminute test that people can take, and in five minutes they know what the  what the answer is.Id like to ask, if I could, the executives of these great companies  and they are  they have really helped us a lot over the last 45day period. Were talking about a 45day period when many of us met. And since then, what Walmart and the others have done has been nothing short of amazing.So I just want to ask them to come forward and say a few words about their company. Plus, theyre going to make a big contribution to our country.Please. Come forward, please. Thank you.MR. RUSCKOWSKI Thank you, Mr. President, and thank you for  all of you for being here today. And what wed like to talk about is the progress weve made.The last time we were here was March 13th, and weve made tremendous progress. And none of that progress could be made without the 47,000 people at Quest Diagnostics that are working around the clock, working up the test and running the test and delivering the results that we need.As far as results, weve made tremendous progress. We are currently, at Quest Diagnostics, testing about 50,000 tests per day. Weve been pushed by the task force to bring up that number by the end of May. Well have 100,000 tests per day  about 3 million tests  and these are the molecular tests that we do today.We have also brought up serological testing. We started that this past week, and by the end of May, well be close to 250,000 a day, about 7,000 a month. So you put those two numbers together, and its about 10 million tests by the end of May that well be doing at Quest Diagnostics.Were doing that also in a quicker way. Turnaround times were somewhat of an issue in the early days. Weve reduced that to one to two days. Our turnaround time for people in beds  hospital beds  is less than 24 hours. And were doing that in the same way weve done it with the FDA and with CLIA, delivering the quality that you all expect. And convenience will improve, as well, with convenient solutions that well be able to swab individuals more easily and also deliver to consumer  the ability to have consumers choose a test online with a telehealth provider.So with that, Id like to offer my colleague the podium as well.THE PRESIDENT Thank you.MR. SCHECHTER Mr. President, thank you very much for your leadership and for having us all here today. Our scientists and our lab technicians are working day and night in order to do as many tests as we possibly can for the American public and to turn those tests around as quickly as possible.Just 45 days ago, we said we could do several thousand tests a day. We can now do 60,000 tests a day, and were continuing to expand that capacity every single day.In addition, our scientists are working to make testing more convenient and easier. We have the swabs now that are much smaller than the original ones that we originally launched with, but we also have the Pixel by LabCorp athome test. That test, right now, is for healthcare workers on the frontline and first responders, but we will be rolling that out much more broadly over the coming weeks, and were going to roll it out with absolutely no upfront cost for the individual consumers.At the same time, we are building our capacity for serology testing, and we can currently do about 50,000 today, and well be able to do several hundred thousand per day by the middle of May. And were going to be working with the retailers  our colleagues that are here today  to help them as they expand their testing capabilities across the entire country.And lastly, Mr. President, we have a rather large drug development business, and we will continue to work with our colleagues in the pharmaceutical and the biotech  biotechnology industry to ensure we do everything we possibly can to enroll clinical trials fast so that we can get new treatments and potential vaccines.Thank you.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Please, go ahead. Please.MR. CASPER Mr. President, thank you and thank  and thank the administration for all of the collaboration to enable Thermo Fisher Scientific to be able to produce the test kits that companies like LabCorp and Quest and the public health labs around the world run.We met our original commitments of producing 5 million kits a week, and were up to scaling that to double that in the coming weeks in terms of supporting testing around the world.Id like to thank my 75,000 colleagues around the world for their tireless effort to make that a reality and supporting all of  all of our customers to have the testing necessary to get America back to work.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Great job.MR. NIMS Thank you, Mr. President. Im John Nims with U.S. Cotton, and we are the company that is going to produce the swabs to be used in these testing kits. We have about 1,200 people in our company. And in our Cleveland operation, they have pivoted from, as youve said, the Qtipstyle swab to a swab thats going to have a plastic stick with a polyester tip so that they can be assembled into these kits.Our Cleveland team has done a wonderful job with this, and Im very  theyre very excited to be able to help in this effort.So thank you, Mr. President.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Great job.MR. MERLO Mr. President, thank you. Im Larry Merlo with CVS Health. And it was just over a month ago that we opened up our first drivethrough test site. And since that time, we have opened largescale testing facilities across five states in partnership with the administration and working with the governors of Rhode Island, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Georgia, and Michigan.And these sites are enabling us to test approximately 1,000 individuals a day with realtime results. We now have a capacity to test about 35,000 individuals each week. And this afternoon, we announced plans to expand that capacity even further.Beginning in May, we will install testing capabilities in up to 1,000 CVS pharmacies. Well be using our drivethroughs and our parking lots with swab testing. So again, youll see that coming online, you know, in May.And we also recognize the fact that the virus is disproportionately affecting our minority communities. So were working in partnership with organizations like the National Medical Association to bring testing and care into the traditionally underserved communities.Were also beginning to implement mobile capabilities with which to do that. And as businesses are restarting their workforce, well also be looking to assist them, you know, as they begin to come back to a normal operation.And finally, as my other colleagues, I just want to thank my CVS colleagues. They have done a phenomenal job in terms of helping people in many different ways all across communities in the country. And theyre part of this army of healthcare professionals and, you know, frontstore and, you know, firstline supervisors and workers that are doing terrific things to bring our country together. And, for that, we owe them a huge amount of gratitude.Thank you.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Great job. Thank you.MR. ASHWORTH Thank you, Mr. President. Appreciate the invitation to be here today. And it was just 45 days ago when we were here. Im Richard Ashworth. I oversee Walgreens in the U.S. And I just want to start off  Larry, like you  thanking the over 200,000 Walgreen team members who are in stores every day all across America, taking care of our patients and our customers  you know, giving them essential daily needs the prescriptions, obviously, that they need and even COVID testing while were here.We also announced today well be expanding our testing capabilities across all states, including Puerto Rico. Well be able to triple the volume that we do now, in partnership with our lab partners, and were excited to be able to do that.Were really excited with the publicprivate partnership that we have here, because thats whats enabling us to do this, and we look forward to working with the additional states to get these sites up and running as fast as possible.As a pharmacist, I just want to say one quick thing Im really proud to be part of this profession. And not just Walgreens pharmacists and pharmacy employees, but all of them, across grocery  mass, independents. Youre really doing what you should be doing and what you went to school for to help patients, counseling them on their medicines, and helping them understand the problems that were facing.You know, pharmacy is right here in it with everyone, together in the community, and we look forward to being part of the testing like we are now serology, whatever that might look like in the future and eventually treatment when the vaccine does come.So thank you, Mr. President, for the opportunity.THE PRESIDENT Great job. Thank you very much.MR. ASHWORTH Thank you.MR. MCMULLEN Thank you, Mr.President. Thank you, Mr.Vice President. We appreciate all youre doing to get America back to work and doing it safely.I represent Kroger, and my name is Rodney McMullen, and I am so proud of our nearly half a million associates that are doing everything, every day, to keep customers safe and our associates safe.And one of the things that we were able to do is provide the basic practices were doing. We call it blueprint. And its the things that all of us can learn from on how to get America back working.We also announced earlier today, continuing to accelerate our practice on testing. We are actively engaged in six states. Next  in the next couple of weeks, well take that to 12 states, and the number of tests that we do continues to grow faster than that.Together, we will win. Together, we will solve this problem and move on. America is always great. Thank you again.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Thank you.MR. MCMILLON Thank you, Mr.President. My name is Doug McMillon. Im a Walmart associate. And I too would like to start by thanking our associates for everything that theyre doing in our stores, Sams Clubs, distribution centers, and in our ecommerce fulfillment centers. Theyve been inspiring and continue to have a cando attitude and step up. Its much appreciated.We started 45 days ago, as did everyone else, and weve been operating sites for a while now. Were now up to 20 sites across 11 states. By the end of next week, well be to 45, and by the end of the May  end of May, well be at 100.We also  a few weeks ago, Vice President Pence and I were in a distribution center in Virginia  a food distribution center. He was kind enough to come and thank our associates for us there, which is much appreciated.And the President and Vice President were speaking on the phone about surgical gowns, and the President asked if we could put in an order for millions of surgical gowns. And we dont normally buy those, so I wasnt sure if we were going to be able to do that. But Id like to thank our apparel team, and McKesson in particular, for partnering with us. Weve been able to, in the month of April, secure an additional two and a half million surgical gowns. And by the end of May, well have an additional 6 million available to help.So thank you for the opportunity to serve and for being here.THE PRESIDENT Thank you, Doug. Great job. Thank you.MS. DONIGAN Thank you, Mr. President, and thanks to the team for getting this great operation up and running for the benefit of the country. Im Heyward Donigan with Rite Aid. And we are currently operating 40 percent of the current test sites in 25 locations across eight states.And we had the  I had the opportunity, as I was driving up, to stop at our Richmond location and see the testing in action and thank the associates  whether it be security or pharmacy front end, everybody whos helping with this great effort and all of the customers that appreciate this so much. It was really amazing to see.And I want to thank my 50,000 associates also for keeping these retail locations up and running during these really, really tough times. Its been quite amazing. And we too are going to expand our testing, and were doing about 1,500 a day.Thanks.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much.So thank you all very much. Its incredible what weve done together over a short period of time. I want to thank our Vice President for the task force and the work. Every day, it gets better.And we had a fantastic goal with the governors today, and I would say that they are as  as thrilled as they can be, considering that the fact is that there has been so much unnecessary death in this country. It could have been stopped and it could have been stopped short, but somebody a long time ago, it seems, decided not to do it that way. And the whole world is suffering because of it  184 countries at least.But I want to thank all of these great businessmen and women for the job theyve done. They have been fantastic with us, working with us. And, as you know, for several weeks, my administration has encouraged the governors to leverage unused testing capacity in states. Very few understood that we have tremendous capacity.Then, one week ago, we provided each governor with a list of names, addresses, and phone numbers of the labs where they could find additional testing capacity in their states. Within 48 hours, the number of tests performed across the country began to absolutely skyrocket.On Saturday alone, more than 200,000 test results were reported, which is a gigantic number  bigger than any country anywhere in the world for a much longer period of time a number that is an increase earlier in the month when we tested roughly less than 100,000 a day. So we much more than doubled it, and that will be doubling again very shortly.We are continuing to rapidly expand our capacity and confident that we have enough testing to begin reopening. And the reopening process  we want to get our country open. And the testing is not going to be a problem at all. In fact, its going to be one of the great assets that we have.Today were releasing additional guidance on testing to inform the states as they develop their plans for a phased and very safe reopening. Our blueprint describes how states should unlock their full capacity, expand the number of testing platforms, establish monitoring systems to detect local outbreaks, and conduct contact tracing. We have it all.Other countries are calling to find out what are we doing and how do you do it. And were helping them. Were dealing with a lot of countries, helping them on testing, just like we did on the ventilators.I directed our Medicare program to make it easier for seniors to get the testing that they need. And the pharmacies  as you know, we are allowing pharmacies now to do testing. And we have other testing locations that were going to be allowing also, but having pharmacies get involved in testing is a very big deal. Were also asking governors to do the same in their Medicaid program. So theyre going to be able and authorized to do the same in Medicaid. So its a big  thats a big deal.So were deploying the full power and strength of the federal government to help states, cities  to help local government get this horrible plague over with and over with fast. Theres tremendous energy in our country right now. Theres energy like people havent seen in a long time  a spirit that they have not seen. And were doing very well  very well  considering what happened to us and considering if you look at what happened to others.This is something that the world has not seen for a long, long time. You can probably go back to 1917, where it was a terrible period of time. You all know what happened in 1917. Thats over 100 years ago.With that, Id like to introduce, if I might  Dr. Birx, if you could come up. And then, Admiral, youll come up. And between the two of you, youll explain the entire process and how much progress weve made and where were going.Thank you very much. Thank you.DR. BIRX Thank you, Mr. President. So the blueprint lays out the roles and responsibilities to enhance our partnership between the private sector and the public sector, bringing together state and local governments with the federal government to ensure that we can accomplish and achieve our core principles and objectives.If we can have the first slide. The core elements of the testing plan include both three elements robust diagnostic testing plans developed in partnerships with state  and I just really want to thank the governors and the health officials, both at the state and local levels who have been working with us day and night to work through these issues, and also all the laboratory directors in many of those states, as well as the American Society for Microbiology, who have been working with us to ensure that the plans were efficient and effective.Within the robust diagnostic testing plans, it was really unlocking the full capacity of the state increasing the number of testing planforms  we now have multiple tests for different platforms increasing the ability to collect samples increasing testing and laboratory supplies and ensuring that we work together to make sure that every client receives the test that they need.This is added with timely monitoring systems. And what do I mean by that? Systems where we bring together the ability to not only diagnose the symptomatic, but proactively and interactively work with individuals that we know are at higher risk. Weve worked with states to look at where the outbreaks have occurred when theyre not in the large metros, and we see that it occurs very often in places of close settings, among our Native Americans and among our longterm care facilities. So an active monitoring program thats active, integrated, and innovative.And then combining this with the third element, which is the rapid response program, relying on CDC to be working with state and local governments to ensure that every symptomatic case  and, critically, the asymptomatic cases  are quickly tracked and traced to ensure that we can not only control this epidemic, but predict outbreaks before they expand.And then, finally, the plan includes an approach of using science and technology to develop even newer platforms, more efficient testing, really ensuring that the antibody tests that are utilized and recommended by both FDA and CDC have high quality and predicting both exposure to the virus and antibody development.And then, finally, working on innovative tests that could be high throughput and pointofcare  an antigenbased test or a pointofcare expanded nucleic acid test.Thank you.THE PRESIDENT Very good. Thank you. Good job.Admiral, please.ADMIRAL GIROIR Thank you, Mr. President. And thank you, Ambassador Birx. If I could have the next slide, please.I want to spend just a couple minutes about telling  going over where weve been, but more importantly where were going. I think we all can understand how we can group this into three distinct phases.First is our launch phase, when we were really engaging the emerging epidemic and the types of things we need to do. For example, mobilize the private sector to develop tests and have EUAs. And I think you know, over the past two months, the FDA has issued 67 emergency use authorizations, which is far outpacing anything that has been done or could ever have been imagined. Galvanizing the research community and the commercial labs  the reason why were here with ACLA labs, having done about 3 million tests, is because of that day when it was galvanized by the President and the Vice President.We also set models in the community. Those first communitybased testing sites that were federally supported and, really, under the direction of the U.S. Public Health Service  people who had been in Japan, testing people on the Diamond Princess, to assure that it would be done right and it would be done safely for everyone involved.Then we moved to, really, scaling. That phase was very, very important because we knew we needed to be at an immense scale to enter the third phase about supporting opening again. This again  for example, a lot of my life is about swabs. It was enhancing the production capability of a small company in Maine, called Puritan, that youll hear a whole lot more about that has  that is, sort of, the swab provider for the country  but also, because of the FDA actions and the actions of scientific community, being able to broaden the types to spun polyester, so U.S. Cotton can now come in and start delivering, within the next couple of weeks, 3 million swabs per week of a different type.It also did things like expanding the communitybased testing sites. Whereas we started small with the commercial partners, you see today, right now, we have 73 of these 2.0 sites going to 110. And very importantly, this demonstrated the model. And 68 percent of those sites are in communities of moderate or high social vulnerability. And 22 percent are in the highest social vulnerability communities so that we can make sure that testing gets where it needs to be. Youve just heard that that could be expanded to thousands of sites.And finally, stage three, which is very exciting coordinating with governors to support testing plans and rapid response programs. Over the past week, a multidisciplinary team from the White House, HHS, FDA, FEMA has met virtually with multidisciplinary teams from every state, Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia to understand what their testing aspirations are and to make sure that we can meet those demands. Were going to have another round of those calls this week.But as we talked about earlier today, we will be able to supply every state with the  with the supplies and the tests that they need. That will dramatically increase the number of tests weve done to this point. And just to give you an idea, the supplies that we will be providing to states  the minimum that were supplying to states is approximately double, in that month, than the Republic of Korea has performed in the four months to now accumulated  to give you an idea of the amount of testing that were going to be  going to be doing.So Im very exciting right now, as we complete this ecosystem with the large reference labs  the LabCorp and Quest providing the very highthroughput, largescale testing the galvanizing of the hospitals and academic labs that Dr. Birx has done, by a machine to machine, understanding and promoting that with the governors and, of course, using pointofcare testing when and where thats very important to stop outbreaks or in remote areas, like in the Indian Health Service or in Alaska.Thank you, Mr. President.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Thank you. Great job. Thanks, Brett.Okay. So with that, were here to answer some questions, and Mike is up here also. So, well answer.Steve, please go ahead.