James S. Brady Press Briefing RoomApril 24, 2020539 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Thank you very much, everyone. Thank you. We continue to see evidence that our aggressive strategy is working and working at a very high level. Nationwide, the percent of tests that come back positive has declined very significantly.Last week, roughly 38 percent of the tests in New York were positive. This week, that number is down to 28 percent. New cases in New York are down 50 percent compared to a week ago. And fatalities are down 40 percent over the same period. In Louisiana, the rate of positive test result had declined from 25 percent down to 15 percent in the last seven days alone.Eighteen states now show a decline in a number of positive tests in the last seven days. So, over the last seven days, theres been very, very significant progress.Half of all Americans live in states that have now taken steps to open their economies. Just yesterday, Governors Gavin Newsom, California Tim Walz of Minnesota and Bill Lee of Tennessee announced additional plans to restart certain sectors.We ask every American to maintain vigilance and hygiene, social distancing and voluntary use of face coverings. Were opening our country. Its very exciting to see. We have a lot of talent involved, from governors down to people that just stand there and help you with the doors. Theres been tremendous talent involved and tremendous spirit from our country. The country is a great place, and its going to be greater than ever before. I really believe that. I think theres going to be a tremendous upward shift.I spoke with Tim Cook, today, of Apple. And they have a good sense of the market, and he feels its going to be a V. The V is sharply upward later on as we actually get it fully open.Today, I signed the Paycheck Protection Program and Health Care Enhancement Act, providing 320 billion to keep American workers on the payroll. Thirty billion dollars of the Paycheck Protection funds will be reserved for small financial institutions, including those that serve minority and distressed communities, extending vital relief to thousands of African American and Hispanic American smallbusiness owners and their employees.The bill also delivers 75 billion for hospitals  so badly needed for hospitals theyve taken a very big hit  and medical providers. In areas less affected by the virus, hospitals and doctors should work with their state and local health officials on ways to safely resume elective medical treatments and care.Under the CARES Act, were sending back payments to millions of American workers. More than 80 million Americans have already received their payment 3,400 for a typical family of four. Three thousand four hundred dollars. Thats great. And you deserve it.The CARES Act requires that the federal government send out a notice of what benefits Americans are receiving. To fulfill the requirement, the Treasury Department is mailing a letter to me. It will include the amount, their economic impact payment, how it will arrived  direct deposit, check, or prepaid debit card  as well as a message to the nation, letting each American know that we are getting through this challenge together as one American family. And thats whats been happening.The whole world is watching us. You have 184 countries out there that have been hit, and now its probably higher than that. But theyre all watching us. Theyre all watching and theyre calling, and they respect what were doing, so much.I spoke with the leaders of numerous countries today. Theyre asking if we can send them ventilators, and Im agreeing to do it. We have tremendous capacity  now, overcapacity of ventilators. Were filling up stockpiles for our states and for ourselves. The federal government has over 10,000 ventilators, and we could have a lot more if we wanted to do that. But were helping Mexico, Honduras, Indonesia, France. Were sending to France. Were sending to Spain. Were sending to Italy. And well probably be sending to Germany, should they need them.Over the last three years, we built the strongest economy and the most successful country the world has ever seen. Greatest economy the world has ever seen. Nobody has ever done anything like what we were able to do.And we will rebuild that economy. Our economy in the nottoodistant future, I really believe, with all that weve learned and all that weve done, will be just as strong and maybe stronger than ever before  even stronger than it was just two months ago.Some interesting note is that the FDA approved the first athome COVID19 test kit. It just got approved. And Dr. Stephen  where is Stephen? Stephen Hahn. Stephen?  is going to say a couple of words about that and some other things.I want to thank Stephen. The FDA has been incredible. Theyve been approving not only this, but theyve been approving many things at a pace thats never happened before. And theyre being very safe about it, as Stephen told me. Hes told me  told me very strongly. But at the same time, theyre approving things at record numbers, in a record  at a record rate. And its really been helpful.Many tests are going on  many vaccine tests and tests of every different kind. And things are happening. Just like this event, things are happening very rapidly. And Id like to have Stephen tell you a little bit about it.Thank you very much. Stephen, please.DR. HAHN Thank you, Mr. President. I appreciate the opportunity to tell you about whats happening at the FDA. We have a team of more than 18,000 employees, including 10,000 scientists, doctors, pharmacists, and nurses, and theyve been working around the clock because, as you probably know, many of the medical products that are being used for the COVID19 outbreak are, in fact, regulated by FDA. The staff have been hard at work authorizing tests and other medical products.As part of these efforts to support diagnostic test development during this global pandemic, the President has asked us, and under his leadership, to actually cut down as many barriers as we possibly could to get medical products into the medical community, and we have done that, of course recognizing the urgency of the situation.I do want to emphasize what the President said, that  is that we are very much paying attention to safety and with respect to test validity and reliability of those tests.And I think its really important to understand how far weve come in just a few short months. The academic community, which I come from the private sector the government  weve come together to develop diagnostics for a completely new infectious disease.And its really important  weve heard from many test developers, both in academia and in the manufacturing world This normally takes years to develop. Youve heard Dr. Birx talk about the fact that HIV tests has taken many, many years to develop. This has happened in weeks and months. Weve been laser focused on working with both industry and academia to actually make this happen.To date, under our emergency use authorization approach, weve quickly reviewed and authorized 63 tests, both diagnostic, as well as serologic  that is the antibody test. Weve had several pointofcare tests, and thats important because those can be done in the emergency room or in a doctors office, et cetera, and much more convenient for the patient.And this week, as the President said, we authorized the first athome test by a company called LabCorp. This is a test where, under certain circumstances, with a doctors supervision, a test can be mailed to a patient and the patient can perform the selfswab and then mail it back and get the results after that time  all under the guidance of a licensed physician.And were not just letting up with these 63 tests weve approved. We are working with more than 400 test developers who are pursuing authorization for their diagnostics under our current policies. And under our regulatory approach, which is quite flexible, many other tests are becoming available.We are  we have heard, and have reported to us, 220 labs around the country have begun patient testing using their own validated tests. This has allowed us to increase, significantly, tests around the country.I updated you earlier this week on serologic tests  these antibody tests that are used to detect natural immunity  and the FDAs approach to help make these tests available. While these are just one part of our larger response effort, they can play a role in helping move our economy forward by helping healthcare professionals identify those who have immunity to the COVID19.And just finally, when it comes to therapeutics, we are leaving no stone unturned in finding treatments for COVID19. You do know that we dont have any approved currently therapeutics for COVID19, but we are actively involved with both the academic and the commercial and private sector to find those. Seventytwo trials of therapeutics are underway in the United States under FDA oversight and 211 are in the planning stages, so we expect to see more. This includes convalescent plasma, as well as antiviral therapies.Work continues on vaccines. And two firms have announced that the FDA has authorized their trials to go forward, one of which weve mentioned here before.And finally, in response to the Presidents and Task Forces request, weve stood up the Coronavirus Treatment Acceleration Program. We are leaving no stone unturned, as I said, and were working around the clock to develop these therapeutics for the American people.Thank you very much.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much.