James S. Brady Press Briefing Room548 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Later this evening, we expect the House to pass the Paycheck Protection Program and Health Care Enhancement Act. Im grateful that Congress is answering my call to deliver these additional 320 billion in relief for the American worker and for small businesses.At a time when many Americans are enduring significant economic challenges, this bill will help small businesses to keep millions of workers on the payroll. You see states are starting to open up now, and its very exciting to see. I think its very aweinspiring. Were coming out of it, and were coming out of it well.And were  really, Im very happy the governors have been  the governors, really, have been doing a really good job working with us, and its  its, really, pretty impressive to see. Ive spoken to numerous leaders of countries over the last 48 hours, and they are saying were leading the way. Were really leading the way in so many different ways.Im also very pleased that Harvard  as you know, its Harvard and Stanford and Princeton and numerous other universities and colleges, and also large businesses have sent funds back to us. And in some cases, I stopped funds that I looked at. And we are pleased to report that the funds have either not gone out or its about 350 million, and theyve either not gone out or weve renegotiated it and theyre not getting them.So  and its  in a couple of cases, theyre sending them back and sending them back immediately. So I think it was very nice. I want to thank Harvard in particular. They acted very quickly and decisively. And they agreed, when they heard the facts, that they should not be getting it. So we appreciate it very much from Harvard, Princeton, Stanford, and other institutions.The bill also includes 30 billion to support small lending institutions serving distressed communities, helping countless African American and Hispanic American small businesses.As we continue our battle against the virus, the data and facts on the ground suggest that were making great progress. In 23 states, new cases have declined in the peak  week. Forty percent of American counties have also seen a rapid decline in new cases. Fortysix states reported drop in patients showing coronaviruslike symptoms. Thats a big number.To keep America gaining momentum, every citizen needs to maintain the vigilance. And we all understand that very well weve gone over it many, many times. This includes practicing good hygiene, maintaining social distance, and the voluntary use of face covering.A safe and phased reopening of our economy  its very exciting, but it does not mean that we are letting down our guard at all, in any way. On the contrary, continued diligence is an essential part of our strategy to get our country back to work, to take our country back. Were winning this, and were going to win it, and were going to keep watching. Were going to watch very closely for the invisible enemy.With each passing day, were learning more and more about this enemy. The scientists at DHS have released a report offering a number of insights about how the virus reacts to different temperatures, climates, and surfaces. The findings confirm that the virus survives better in cold or in drier environments and does less well in warmer and more humid environments.I have to say that, very excitingly, were going to have somebody up Bill will be up in just a little while. It was a great report you gave. And hes going to be talking about how the virus reacts in sunlight. Wait until you hear the numbers. You wont even believe them.U.S. trials of the COVID19 have been going on and have been approved in the United States, Germany, UK, and China. Thats big news. And were  a lot of trials are going on. We have a lot of great, brilliant minds working on this, both from the standpoint of a vaccine and therapeutics.We must be careful in all conditions, but we will  we will get this done. Were very close to a vaccine. Unfortunately, were not very close to testing because when the testing starts, it takes a period of time. But well get it done.And I want to thank the head of DHS Science and Technology, Bill Bryan, for what hes going to be doing and what hes going to be saying and the report that hes about to give. I think its going to be something that nobody has ever heard. Itll be brandnew information and very important information.My administration continues to leverage the Defense Production Act to dramatically increase the manufacture and delivery of critical medical supplies. We finalized three contracts to produce 39 million more N95 masks in 90 days. And as you know, were also using a sterilization process. Some great equipment that will sterilize the masks up to 20 times per mask. So thats like ordering 20 times more masks. And its working very well.We just want the hospitals and the institutions, where it is, to use it. A lot of people dont use it. Theyre so used to getting a new mask, they dont want to use it. They want to go and immediately get a new one. Were asking them to use the sterilization process. Every bit as good  up to 20 times. Think of that.In addition to ramping up our domestic assembly lines, we also have airlifted nearly 750 million pieces of personal protective equipment into the United States through our Project Airbridge, which has been an incredible thing to watch. Its really a military operation.The Vice President is now providing each governor with an exhaustive countybycounty breakdown of the privately distributed personal protection. And this is equipment and things that are incredible. Its personal protective equipment. Its incredible, and its all brand new and at the highest level. Were getting only the highest level. And also, were looking at essential gear within their states, and its being delivered to different states quickly and as we speak.This way, the governor should know exactly whats being delivered through a privatesector supply chain within their states, as well as through the Project Airbridge. Were trying to get it immediately from the plane to the state. When we cant do that, we bring it into our facilities and get it to the governors. And were getting them fast, and were notifying them very strongly so they know its there. Governors can use this information to quickly ensure that they get materials where and when they are needed.Today, I also want to extend my special thanks to our nations incredible county emergency management teams who have been working relentlessly for weeks around the clock, end on end, to serve their communities, help distribute critical supplies, and save countless American lives. We salute these heroic officials on the frontlines.As we continue to develop potential therapies, the FDA has recently begun a national effort to expand access to convalescent plasma donated from the blood of those who have recovered from the virus. The blood of these donors contains antibodies that can potentially reduce the severity of the illness in those who are sick  and frankly, those that are very sick. Nearly 3,000 patients are now enrolled in the Expanded Access Program, receiving transfusions nationwide.And I want to thank all of the people that recovered, for what theyve done. They  as I said yesterday, they raise their hand when they barely can walk, and theyre saying, I want to donate blood. I want to donate whatever it is that you want, because we want to help people. Its really quite incredible.Convalescent plasma will also be used to manufacture a concentrated antibody treatment that does not have to be matched with a particular blood type. This concentrated antibody treatment could be used as a preventative measure to keep healthcare workers and other highrisk populations from contracting the virus in the first place. A very big deal.Clinical trials of these products are slated to begin within weeks, and we can maybe have a fairly quick solution. I urge Americans to get in there and keep doing what youre doing, because again, we want those people recovering or recovered from coronavirus to contact their local blood and plasma donation center to learn how they can help. And theyve been so great, and I just appreciate it.My administration has also partnered with leading  and we have really been establishing some great partnerships with leading technology companies and scientific journals to create a database of 52,000 scholarly articles on the virus that can be analyzed by artificial intelligence.Top AI experts are now using this wealth of data to gain insights into potential therapies. And were collaborating with tech firms, universities, and our national labs to harness American supercomputers in the search for treatments and vaccines. That search is going on, and its being  I think youll see in the future  youll see its very successful. Ultimately, itll be a tremendous success. Great progress is being made at a rapid pace  a pace like no other.We have every hope that with the full might and resources of American science and technology, and with the courage and devotion of the American people who have been so incredible, we will end this plague, and together we will restore the full measure of American strength and power and prosperity.Our country is going to do fantastically well. You see whats going on. There is a pentup demand in our country to get it back right where it was and maybe even better, and thats whats going to happen.So with that, Id like to ask Mike Pence to come up  Vice President. Say a few words please, Mike.THE VICE PRESIDENT Thank you, Mr. President. And good afternoon. Today, the White House Coronavirus Task Force met. And while our hearts are with the families of those who have lost their life to the coronavirus and those who are struggling with serious illness today, our team, led by Dr. Deborah Birx, informs us that the data continues to show promising signs of progress.The New York metro area, New Jersey, Connecticut, Detroit and New Orleans all appear to be past their peak. And we are seeing consistent declines in hospitalization and cases in regions across the country.Our only conclusion is that were getting there, America, because the American people have put into practice the Presidents guidelines of social distancing because youve been listening and adhering to the guidance of state and local officials. We are  were making  were making meaningful progress. In a very real sense, sparing Americans to be exposed to the coronavirus and, no less extent, saving lives.Our task force actually believes, Mr. President, that if we continue these mitigation efforts in the days ahead  as states implement their policies, including phased reopening  that well preserve those gains. We do believe, by early summer, we could be in a much better place as a nation with much of this coronavirus epidemic behind us.Earlier today, we also had a conference call led by Secretary Ben Carson and leaders from HUD about the Presidents announcement yesterday that he is repurposing the White House Opportunity and Revitalization Council to focus on the impact of the coronavirus on minority communities. Secretary Carson will convene the council tomorrow, and well be reporting tomorrow afternoon on their progress.We want to thank the more than 270 leaders of organizations dedicated to housing, homelessness, and improving the lives of people across our urban communities  not only for being with us today, for the way they have partnered with our administration and partnered with state and local officials to put the health of all of their constituencies first.As the President mentioned, well  youll receive a report that our task force received formally this week from Bill Bryan of the Science and Technology Directorate at the Department of Homeland Security. He will outline, as the President said, encouraging news about the impact that heat and sunlight have on the coronavirus, which will increase the confidence that we feel about the coming summer.On the subject of testing At the present moment, we have reports of 4.93 million tests having been performed across America. And encouraging news As states have been engaging commercial labs at a higher level across the country, yesterday our commercial lab system did more than 100,000 tests in a single day. So were beginning to activate all of the capacity.And tomorrow, at the Presidents direction, our task force will convene a conference call with all of the nations governors to talk about the progress that they are making on testing. And were going to hear from governors about the practices that  and methods that they are employing to significantly increase testing following our briefing about capacity in laboratories this past Monday.For instance, Governor Mike DeWine just announced that Ohios testing has been greatly expanded after the FDA approved Thermo Fishers new extraction reagent, saying, in his words, that the action, quote, probably doubled, maybe even tripled testing in Ohio virtually overnight.Governor Tim Walz of Minnesota announced, along with the states healthcare system, the Mayo Clinic, and the University of Minnesota, what he described as a breakthrough for rapid, widespread testing  able to test more than 20,000 people using a molecular test per day.Governor Kim Reynolds of Iowa launched the Test Iowa Initiative that will triple testing capacity by partnering with Nomi Health and DOMO. She also worked with the University of Iowa Hospitals to leverage further capacity.And Governor Eric Holcomb and Governor Andy Beshear, of Indiana and Kentucky respectively, both announced additional drivethrough testing locations.Our priority has always been to focus first on those impacted by the coronavirus and then on those extraordinary healthcare workers ministering to their needs every day. And I know, Mr. President, how proud you are that our men and women in uniform have come alongside our healthcare workers in communities most impacted, and I know the American people are proud as well.As of today, FEMA reports that 35,000 National Guard have been deployed across the country to aid in our coronavirus response. Governor Kevin Stitt of Ohio Oklahoma actually deployed the National Guard to hospitals across the state to evaluate protective equipment and hospital capacity and report it in to state emergency management and FEMA.And Governor Greg Abbott of Texas actually mobilized more than 1,200 National Guard and 45 teams to provide greater access to testing.Along with the National Guard, at the Presidents direction today, more than 4,500 active duty military doctors, nurses, and medical assistants have been deployed across the country. Yesterday, 1,013 medical professionals in our military were actually deployed to 19 hospitals in 7 states to support those amazing healthcare workers.And with 4.4 million more Americans filing for unemployment in the past week, I joined the President in welcoming passage in the House today of the Paycheck Protection Program. Itll support working families. Itll allow small businesses to keep people on the payroll for a period of two months. But it also, as the President requested, included 75 billion to assist hospitals across the country.And in that spirit, the President and I will continue to urge states across the country Given the unique burden on hospitals, we are now encouraging states to restart elective surgeries, wherever possible  either statewide or on a countybycounty basis. We recognize the role elective surgeries play in finances for local hospitals and well be working with states to enable that.In that vein, Governor Doug Ducey exec  issued an executive order not long ago, allowing elective surgeries beginning May 1 for hospitals that meet certain preparedness criteria.And Indianas governor, Eric Holcomb, is allowing elective clinical procedures to begin on April 21st.Finally, Mr. President, the task force received today our first report on state reopening plans. At the present moment, 16 states have released formal reopening plans. Thirteen of those were actually released since you unveiled the Opening Up America Guidelines to our governors and to the nation last week.And to your point, Mr. President, states are beginning to make those plans. And were encouraged to see so many states embracing the phased approach to reopening their economies thats contemplated in our Guidelines for Opening Up America Again.For instance, Governor Mike Parson of Missouri announced the Show Me Strong Recovery Plan as two initial phases intended to protect the most atrisk.Governor Tom Wolf announced the Plan for Pennsylvania that would begin May 8th  will end a stayathome order for just portions of Pennsylvania. But the plan, again, requires regions to have fewer than 50 new positive cases per 100,000 for a period of 14 days, and it also lays out a phased reopening roadmap.Governor Kate Brown of Oregon updated their framework for reopening, doing three phases  again, on a countybycounty basis.And Governor Brad Little of Idaho released Rebound Idaho in just the last few days that will consist of four phases and require specific criteria that Idaho and businesses need to meet to begin to reopen.Mr. President, with the  with the Guidelines to Open Up America Again, states are making plans. And at your direction, our task force will continue to work very closely, providing them with the data, providing them with the resources to be able to implement those plans in a safe and responsible way.So, with that, let me just end where I began, and to say thank you to the American people. The progress that we are seeing is a testament to what all of you have done to our extraordinary healthcare workers to a partnership between the federal government and to state and local official. And Im confident its also owing to the prayers of millions of Americans each and every day.All of that combined, were  were slowing the spread. Were protecting the most vulnerable. Were saving lives. And every single day, we are one day closer to opening up America again.With that, Mr. President, Id be pleased to call Bill forward. Bill Bryan leads the Science and Technology Directorate at the Department of Homeland Security and now will make a presentation on their recent study.ACTING UNDER SECRETARY BRYAN Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, Mr. President THE PRESIDENT Thank you, Bill.ACTING UNDER SECRETARY BRYAN  for this opportunity to do this today.Good afternoon everybody. My name is Bill Bryan and I lead the Science and Technology Directorate at the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. Over the last several months, weve intensified the Departments RD efforts to identify and deliver information that informs our response to COVID19. ST is working to identify, develop, deploy, and deploy the tools and information to support our response to this crisis.As part of our efforts, were leveraging the unique capabilities of STs National Biodefense Analysis and Countermeasures Center to study the biology of the COVID19 virus. This center is a highbiocontainment laboratory located in Frederick, Maryland. It was established in the early 2000s, in response to the Amerithrax attacks, and where we study, characterize, analyze, and develop countermeasures for biological threats to the homeland. We work closely with the CDC, FDA, HHS, and also our Department of Defense colleagues and many others.Yesterday, I shared the emerging results of our work that were doing now with the Coronavirus Task Force. And today, I would like to share certain trends that we believe are important.If I may have the first slide, please. And while thats coming up, our most striking observation to date is the powerful effect that solar light appears to have on killing the virus  both surfaces and in the air. Weve seen a similar effect with both temperature and humidity as well, where increasing the temperature and humidity or both is generally less favorable to the virus.So let me illustrate with this first slide. If you look to the right, youll see that term halflife, with a bunch of timestamps on there.First, let me tell you what a halflife is. We dont measure the virus as far as how long we live on the surface we have to measure the decay of the virus in terms of its halflife, because we dont know certain elements. We dont know how much a person expectorates when he  when he spits  right?  when he sneezes, whatever the case may be. We dont know how much virus is in there. So its  that has a long  a bearing on how long the virus is going to be alive and active. So we measure it in half life because halflife doesnt change.So if you look at an 18hour halflife, what youre basically saying is that every 18 hours, the virus  its the life of the virus is cut in half. So if you start with 1,000 particles of the virus, in 18 hours, youre down to 500. And 18 hours after that, youre down to 250, and so on and so forth. Thats important, as I explain in the rest of the chart.If you look at the first three lines, when you see the word surface, were talking about nonporous surfaces door handles, stainless steel. And if you look at the  as the temperature increases, as the humidity increases, with no sun involved, you can see how drastically the halflife goes down on that virus. So the virus is dying at a much more rapid pace, just from exposure to higher temperatures and just from exposure to humidity.If you look at the fourth line, you inject summer  the sunlight into that. You inject UV rays into that. The same effects on line two  as 70 to 35 degrees with 80 percent humidity on the surface. And look at line four, but now you inject the sun. The halflife goes from six hours to two minutes. Thats how much of an impact UV rays has on the virus.The last two lines are aerosols. What does it do in the air? We have a very unique capability  I was discussing this with the President prior to coming out he wanted me to convey it to you  on how we do this. I believe were the only lab in the country that has this capability.But if you can imagine a Home Depot bucket  a fivegallon Home Depot bucket  were able to take a particle  and this was developed and designed by our folks at the NBACC. Were able to take a particle of a virus and suspend it in the air inside of this drum and hit it with various temperatures, various humidity levels, multiple different kinds of environmental conditions, to include sunlight. And were able to measure the decay of that virus while its suspended in the air. This is how we do our aerosol testing.We worked with John Hopkin Applied Physics Lab, and we actually developed a larger drum to do actually more testing. And its four times the size of that. So this is the capability that we bring to this effort.So, in summary, within the conditions weve tested to date, the virus in droplets of saliva survives best in indoors and dry conditions. The virus does not survive as well in droplets of saliva. And thats important because a lot of testing being done is not necessarily being done, number one, with the COVID19 virus, and number two, in saliva or respiratory fluids.And thirdly, the virus dies the quickest in the presence of direct sunlight under these conditions. And when you  when you look at that chart, look at the aerosol as you breathe it you put it in a room, 70 to 75 degrees, 20 percent humidity, low humidity, it lasts  the halflife is about an hour. But you get outside, and it cuts down to a minute and a half. A very significant difference when it gets hit with UV rays.And, Mr. President, while there are many unknown links in the COVID19 transmission chain, we believe these trends can support practical decision making to lower the risks associated with the virus.If I can have my next slide.And when that  while that comes up, youll see a number of some practical applications. For example, increasing the temperature and humidity of potentially contaminated indoor spaces appears to reduce the stability of the virus. And extra care may be warranted for dry environments that do not have exposure to solar light.Were also testing disinfectants readily available. Weve tested bleach, weve tested isopropyl alcohol on the virus, specifically in saliva or in respiratory fluids. And I can tell you that bleach will kill the virus in five minutes isopropyl alcohol will kill the virus in 30 seconds, and thats with no manipulation, no rubbing  just spraying it on and letting it go. You rub it and it goes away even faster. Were also looking at other disinfectants, specifically looking at the COVID19 virus in saliva.This is not the end of our work as we continue to characterize this virus and integrate our findings into practical applications to mitigate exposure and transmission. I would like to thank the President and thank the Vice President for their ongoing support and leadership to the department and for their work in addressing this pandemic. I would also like to thank the scientists, not only in ST and the NBACC, but to the larger scientific and RD community.Thank you very much.THE PRESIDENT Thank you, Bill.