James S. Brady Press Briefing Room610 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Appreciate it. A lot of tremendous things are happening. The number of new positive cases continue to decline nationwide. Recent hotspots appear to be stabilizing. The hotspots are, in some cases, very interesting whats going on. And theyre going down theyre going in the right direction. Cases in the Boston area are now declining. The Chicago curve appears to have flattened, which is terrific. And Detroit is past its peak.These trends demonstrate that our aggressive strategy to battle the virus is working and that more states will soon be in a position to gradually and safely reopen. Its very exciting. It was very exciting, even today, watching and seeing whats happening. And people are getting ready and theyre all excited.I do want to mention a man whos done a very good job for us Dr. Robert Redfield. He was totally misquoted in the media on a statement about the fall season and the virus. Totally misquoted. I spoke to him. He said it was ridiculous. He was talking about the flu and corona coming together at the same time. And corona could be just some little flareups that well take care of. Were going to knock it out. Well knock it out fast. But thats what he was referring to coming together at the same time.And I think rather than waiting, Id ask Dr. Redfield to come up, say a couple of words just to straighten that out, because he didnt say it was a big  a big explosion. The headline in the Washington Post was totally inaccurate. The statement wasnt bad in the Post, but the headline was ridiculous, which is  as I say, thats fake news. And CNN is fake news like crazy, and they had just totally the wrong story, which they knew. They were asked to change it, and they wouldnt do that. And it was false.So Ill ask Dr. Redfield, who is, you know, a real professional, to come up and explain. Please. Thank you, Doctor.DR. REDFIELD Thank you, Mr. President. I really do think its important to clarify this as we build the confidence of the American people.When I commented yesterday that there was a possibility of the fall, winter  next fall and winter, it could be more difficult, more complicated when we had two respiratory illnesses circulating at the same time influenza and the coronavirus19.But I think its really important to emphasize what I didnt say. I didnt say that this was going to be worse. I said it was going to be more complic  or more difficult and potentially complicated because well have flu and coronavirus circulating at the same time.I want to emphasize that we continue to build the nations public health infrastructure to ensure that we have the capacity to sustain the containment mode. Those of you who heard me talk before, Ive told you that in January and February  up to February 27, 28, this nation had 14 cases. We were in the containment mode. And then, unfortunately, the virus overwhelmed where we got into this extreme mitigation.We are building that public health capacity now to make sure that we stay in the containment mode for the upcoming fall and winter season so we will not need to resort to the kind of mitigation that we had to this spring.I have confidence that our public health response of early case recognition that weve talked about, isolation, and contact tracing, combined with our plans for increased surveillance, particularly for the most vulnerable, will be an effective public health strategy so our nation will be able to maintain itself in the containment mode.Again, that will be supported by the American publics continued cooperation, obviously in the areas of personal hygiene and the types of social distancing strategies that may be appropriate.The key to my comments and the reason that I really wanted to stress them was to appeal to the American public to embrace the flu vaccine with confidence. One of the greatest tools we have as we go through the fallwinter season that were into is to get the American public to embrace the influenza vaccine and thereby minimize the impact of flu to be the corespiratory disease that we confront.Thank you very much.