James S. Brady Press Briefing Room546 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Well, thank you very much everyone. We had a very big day today. I want to start by saying that our love and prayers of every American continue to be with our fellow citizens who have lost a cherished friend or a family member to the virus.Amidst our grief, were making tremendous strides against this invisible enemy. Thanks to our aggressive campaign against the virus and the extraordinary talent of our medical professionals, our mortality rate remains roughly half of that of many other countries and one of the lowest of any country in the world. And thats due to a lot of  a lot of things, but our medical professionals have been incredible.Since we announced our Guidelines on Opening Up America, as we call it  we say Opening up America, and we add the word agun sic. I think we can add the word, probably, again. But thats what it is Were opening up America again.Twenty states representing 40 percent of the U.S. population have announced that they are making plans and preparations to safely restart their economies in the very near future. So thats 20 states thats about 40 percent of our country. Theyre moving along pretty quickly. Three announced today, as you know, and theyre going to be doing it safely. Theyre going to be doing it with tremendous passion. Theres  they want to get back to work. The country wants to get back to work.A short time ago, the Senate passed the Paycheck Protection Program and Healthcare Enhancement Act, with additional funding for the Paycheck Protection Program, hospitals, and testing. A lot of money for all of them, especially for our workers and our small businesses.My administration has worked aggressively with Congress to negotiate this critical 482billiondollar funding package. We reached a deal that includes 382 billion in crucial smallbusiness support to keep workers on the payroll 75 billion to aid hospitals, which really need the aid, and very badly  Im very proud of that and 25 billion to support coronavirus testing efforts.I urge the House to pass the bill, and theyre going to be voting on it, I imagine, very  very soon.I think while were here, and so hes a very busy man, as you know  Secretary Mnuchin  hes going to be running back, so I thought wed do  well talk about that now, and well take a couple of questions on that. And then he can go and start phase four, as the ink is drying.Probably, theyll be voting tomorrow in the House, but shortly. Shortly. And I think we have tremendous support.So, Steve, please come up. Say a few words. Steve? Yeah.SECRETARY MNUCHIN Thank you, Mr. President. And thank you for all your work with us to get this passed. Id especially like to thank Mitch McConnell and Chuck Schumer and the entire Senate for passing this. Id also like to thank Kevin McCarthy and Nancy Pelosi, who have been working with us around the clock as well, and our Chief of Staff, Mark Meadows, who was also very instrumental in this.Let me just comment. Weve had tremendous support for the PPP. This gives us another 310 billion for the PPP. We look forward to the House passing this tomorrow and being up and running quickly after that.This also gives us 50 billion for disaster loans, EIDL loans. That will allow the SBA to make 300 billion of disaster loans, all for small businesses. It also allows us, as the President said, more money to hospitals and an unprecedented amount of money for testing. And again, I think we understand hospitals  not only the hospitals that have been impacted by coronavirus, but more importantly, many hospitals that have been shut down, and making sure that the doctors and nurses get money.Now, let me make just one more comment on the program. We have over a million companies that have received this with less than 10 workers. So there is very broad participation in really small business. I will comment there have been some big businesses that have taken these loans. I was pleased to see that Shake Shack returned the money. We will be putting out some FAQs. There is a certification that people are making.And I asked people  just make sure The intent of this was for business that needed the money. Well put out an FAQ. But again, the intent of this money was not for big public companies that have access to capital.THE PRESIDENT And not for Harvard, you might say, Steve.