James S. Brady Press Briefing Room539 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Thank you very much everyone. Thank you. Following the release of our reopening guidelines, governors across the country are looking forward to phase one and announcing plans for an economic resurgence were going to have a resurgence, too. At a time when millions of American workers and families are struggling with the financial consequences of the virus, its critical to continue the medical war while reopening the economy in a safe and responsible fashion.During this time, Americans must maintain strict vigilance and continue to practice careful hygiene, social distancing, and the other protective measures that we have outlined and that everybody has become very familiar with.We continue to be encouraged that many of the areas hardest hit by the virus appear to have turned the corner. For example, recent deaths are down very, very substantially. You can compare that with their peak not so long ago, and you have numbers of 30 percent, 25 percent. In Detroit, as an example, its down by over 50 percent. Congratulations. And, in New Orleans, where theyve done a terrific job, theyre down 65 percent.Thirty states have just one case or less per 1,000 people  far fewer cases per capita, as an example, than Germany, the United Kingdom, France, Italy, Ireland, Switzerland, Singapore, Belgium, Spain, Norway, the Netherlands, Austria, Sweden.My administration continues to press Congress to replenish the enormously successful Paycheck Protection Program, which has impacted 30 million American jobs. We hope to have an agreement very soon. And hopefully tomorrow, the Senate is going to be able to vote. A lot of progress has been made on that  tremendous progress. Its a great plan. Its a great plan. Its helped a lot of people. So we hope to have a vote maybe tomorrow in the Senate.And based on the recordlow price of oil that youve been seeing  its at a level thats very interesting to a lot of people  were filling up our National Petroleum Reserves. Strategic  you know, the Strategic Reserves. And were looking to put as much as 75 million barrels into the reserves themselves. That would top it out. That would be first time in a long time its been topped out. Wed get it for the right price.Were also pushing for the deal to include an additional 75 billion  our deal the deal were talking about  75 billion for hospitals and other healthcare providers. Many providers and their employees have taken a huge financial hit in recent weeks. And visits, elective procedures, surgeries, et cetera, et cetera, were canceled. We think that they can all get back online. Theyll get it done. The hospitals have really been fantastic. The hospitals, theyve  theyve stepped up to the plate. Theyve really done a great job. We appreciate it so much.For areas less affected by the virus, weve issued new recommendations about how to safely resume elective treatments. HHS has also distributed the first 30 billion in direct payments to a million healthcare providers across the country. Weve also invested 1.4 billion in community health centers to ensure our most vulnerable communities, including many African American and Hispanic American communities, have access to the services and testing that they need.Earlier today, Vice President Pence spoke with governors from all 50 states about our unified effort to defeat the virus. He had a great call. It was a great call  very positive in, Id say, every way. Prior to the call, we provided each governor with a list of the names, addresses, and phone numbers of the labs where they can find additional testing capacity within their states  many, many labs. Were providing you with the list. Well show it to you now if you need it. Well give you the details. But hundreds and hundreds of labs are ready, willing, and able.Some of the governors, like, as an example, the governor from Maryland didnt really understand the list. He didnt understand too much about what was going on. So now I think hell be able to do that. Its pretty simple. But they have tremendous capacity and we hope to be able to help him out. Well work with him and work with all of the governors.Similar to the situation with ventilators, states need to assess their complete inventory of available capacity. Some states have far more capacity than they actually understand. And it is a complex subject, but some of the governors didnt understand it. The governor, as an example, Pritzker from Illinois did not understand his capacity. Not simply ask the federal government to provide unlimited support  I mean, you have to take the support where you have it, but we are there to stand with the governors and to help the governors, and thats what were doing. And they have a tremendous capacity that weve already built up. And youll be seeing that were going to be introducing a couple of the folks in a little while to talk about it.I want to draw your attention to Governor Cuomos remarks during his press conference today. He said The President is right. The states testing is up to the states to do, which will implement the test and logistically coordinate the tests. We have about 300 labs in New York and they do it. And theyre great labs, actually. And its my job to coordinate those 300 labs. I think the President is right when he says that the states should lead.And the governor is really  theyre really getting  theyre getting it together in New York. A lot of good things are happening in New York. And I think the governor is going to come in to see us tomorrow. Hes coming to the Oval Office tomorrow afternoon. Andrew is going to be coming in with some of his people. So we look forward to that.The  some of the articles that just recently came about  if you remember, I put out a statement today. For a month, it was all ventilator, ventilator, ventilator. Thats all people could talk about was ventilators. And we did a great job with that. We built a lot of ventilators, to put it mildly. We have so many now that, at some point soon, were going to be helping Mexico and Italy and other countries. Well be sending them ventilators, which they desperately need. They were a position  they were not in a position to build them themselves.But we have thousands being built. Every state has had  they have the ventilators. If they dont, we have almost 10,000 in our Federal Reserve  our stockpile, as they call it. And we did a great job with the ventilators.Unfortunately, the press doesnt cover it  other than the fair press. But  so then you say, Gee, I  they need ventilators. We dont need ventilators. And thats  thats under pressure we did that.Nobody that needed a ventilator in this country didnt get one. And a story that just came out How the Media Completely Blew the Trump Ventilator Story. Im sure you love to see that. Thats by Rich Lowry, a respected journalist and person. How the Media Completely Blew the Trump Ventilator Story  which, unfortunately, you did.And heres another one that just came out. Kyle Smith. The Ventilator Shortage That Wasnt. The Ventilator Shortage That Wasnt  because we got it fixed. And were also going to help the states, by the way, stockpile ventilators. So if a thing like this should happen again, theyve got them.The stories on testing are all over the place  that were actually in good shape. Im going to have the Vice President and others speak to you about that, but were in very good shape on testing and were getting better all the time. Youre going to see some interesting things.I thought before I went any further though, Id like to have General Semonite, who has done an incredible job, tell you where we are. You know were still building beds and hospitals for people that need them. I guess the hospital business generally is getting pretty much closed out now, but were  were creating a lot of space for people, just in case. And in some cases, they probably will be using them.But I thought the general  hes been so impressive and done such a great job. I thought, on behalf of the services and on behalf of the federal government, hed say a few words about what were doing right now.Thank you very much. General.LIEUTENANT GENERAL SEMONITE Well, thank you, Mr. President. I just want you to know that, on behalf of all of us in the Department of Defense, our thoughts and prayers go out to all of those patients and all those victims that have been affected by this terrible virus.And the President of Vice President talk all the time about the heroes, but when Ive been out there, Ive seen the doctors, Ive seen the nurses, and all those that have worked very, very hard, and were just  were just so proud to be part of this noble calling.I  for my team, I really made it very, very simple. I said theres three legs of this stool, and they all have Ss There are sites  in other words, hospitals weve got to worry about supplies and weve got to worry about staff.And so, right when Governor Cuomo called the President, about almost 30 days ago, he said, I need some help  worrying about what could be tens of thousands of hotel room  I mean, of hospital room shortages.So the President and Secretary of Defense asked us to fly to Albany with a team. And on the way up, we understood how complex of a challenge this was, and we knew there was no way you can solve a complex catastrophe with a complicated solution. We needed a very, very simple solution to be able to then work with HHS, to be able to work with FEMA, to be able to work with the Vice Presidents task force, and then to be able to power this down all the way down to the local level.Some of the governors asked us to try to build a hospital in a parking lot or a field in two or three weeks. You cant physically do that. So what we said was, Lets go to where theres an existing facility. And Im going to kind of make this in two big pots those that are either hotel rooms or college dormitories, smaller rooms  or those that are in real large areas, like field houses or convention centers.And we designed those standard facilities that could be either nonCOVID or COVID, and then we got that approved here at the federal government to be able to then power that back down.So we went to Governor Cuomo, and he said, right up front, I love the concept. I need you in the Javits Center. Im ready to start having you work tomorrow afternoon.So when we flew back that afternoon, the next day, we basically built this standard design and then continued to be able to power it down, all the way down through the rest of the team.So I just want to show you a couple of slides here. And well  well kind of let you know where were at right now, Mr President.We had to do a bunch of assessments, so somewhere in the order of over 1,100 different locations we went to. And we work for FEMA, and we work for the President, and we work for governors and mayors. And we said, What do you think your demand is going to be? And based on a lot of the modeling thats been in this room here, we were able to understand when the peak curve was, but we also were able to understand wheres the bed shortage.So then, these 1,100 facilities  right now today, sir, were actually executing 32 different facilities. Thats on the order of merit of about 16,000 beds. Eight of those are all done. Weve still got a lot more to complete. And in the next week and a half, were going to complete about 15 more facilities.Weve got some pending. Some mayors and governors are still wondering do they have enough bed space. And whats important here is we need a very agile plan. You cant do something three weeks ago and think that this is going to continue to stay, because this virus gets a vote. And this entire team  the federal government has tried to be as agile as they can, supporting those states and those governors.The beauty of the plan, though, was it doesnt have to be built by the United States Army Corps of Engineers. So we designed about an extra 52 facilities. We gave those to the governors. And Ive got to be very, very laudatory to the governors. They then imposed and put a lot of those on the  on the ground and did those themselves.So lets go to  Im just going to show you some real simple pictures here. Go to the next slide, if you dont mind.So this is an example of the Javits Center, and you heard the President talk about it quite a few times. This one, about 2,100 bed spaces. What you get is about an 11 or 12footsquare cubicle. There is lights in there. Theres a nurse call, so if you need to be able to call the nurse station. There are nurse spaces throughout. Theres pharmacies throughout. This one started as nonCOVID, but then we came back in and put in central oxygen. So everybody has oxygen right behind their bed to be able to take care of those patients. And again built this one, and about 1,000 patients treated.Lets go to the next one.I was up in Detroit with Governor Whitmer, and she walked us through and told us her intent. Heres what  she needed to do this in the TCF Center. Youll see all the cubicles that are laid out. This is right in the middle of a convention floor where there might be like a boat show or a car show, and then we went in and we built 970 different capabilities there.And again, a lot of great work by my guys in the Corps of Engineers and the rest of the mayors in the cities team all pulling together.Lets go to the next one.This is called the McCormick Place. Governor Pritzker sat us down. He said, Heres, kind of, our intent on what you want to do. Mayor Lightfoot walked us through, and we went into another large convention center. This is actually 3,000 bed spaces. This was a very, very large build. And got this one done in a relatively short time.And then heres another one that kind of helps you understand the dynamic here. Go to the next one, please.This is in Miami Beach, and I flew in to see Governor DeSantis. And my guys had kind of scoped out about 450 beds, and he said, Todd, how long is it going to take to build this? And we kind of said, Probably until the 27th of April. And he went to his health people and he said, How long do you need? And he said, The day we need this is the 21st of April. And I told my guys, You dont have until the 27th. Figure out how to get it done by the 20th.This is where you dont get to build to be able to have the perfect solution. You got to be able to get the mission essential done. Lives are on the line here, and weve got to be able to get everything done to be able to save those lives.And lets go to the last one here. This is one were doing right now Colorado. This is in Denver, in another gigantic convention center. Youll see all the different cubicles here to be able to just bring in that oxygen. Sixinch copper pipe that comes in, and its all piped throughout the entire convention center. Six miles of pipe thats able to go in to be able to make that happen.And in closing, I just want to be able to say that we are very, very focused in the Corps of Engineers on getting this done, but this is all about the team  the federal team, the state team, the local team. The Vice President and his task force, and on a lot of the people sitting here, have informed us of how fast we need to go. And it goes back to, again, all the governors and the mayors to make this happen.But I want to reiterate President Trump has called me three times, and Secretary Esper has been on the phone at least one of those times, and said, What else do we need to do to set you up for success? Is there any other knobs we can turn to be able to help you go? And you think about that equation of those three Ss. I think that with the federal government and the mayors in the cities here, weve effectively taken that first S out of the equation.And, sir, I cant tell you, of all the things Ive done in my career, this is a noble calling to be able to step up and save American lives.So, with that, sir, I thank you very much.THE PRESIDENT Fantastic job. Thank you very much. Anybody have a question for the general while hes here? Anybody? Because I think hes very selfexplanatory. Hes done an incredible job.Jeff, do you have a question?