James S. Brady Press Briefing Room509 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Good afternoon. We continue to see a number of positive signs that the virus has passed its peak. Its been very devastating all over the world. A hundred and eightyfour countries. Probably more. That number was as of a week ago.Dr. Birx will walk through some of these trends in a few moments, but theyre very positive trends for winning. Going to win. Were going to close it out.While we mourn the tragic loss of life  and you cant mourn it any stronger than were mourning it  the United States has produced dramatically better health outcomes than any other country, with the possible exception of Germany. And I think were as good or better.On a per capita basis  remember that On a per capita basis, our mortality rate is far lower than other nations of Western Europe, with the lone exception of possibly Germany. This includes the UK, Switzerland, Belgium, the Netherlands, Italy, France. Spain, for example, has a mortality rate that is nearly four times that of the United States, but you dont hear that. You hear we have more death. But were much bigger countries than any of those countries by far.So when the fake news gets out there and they start talking about the United States is number one  but were not number one China is number one, just so you understand. China is number one by a lot. Its not even close. Theyre way ahead of us in terms of death. Its not even close. You know it. I know it. And they know it. But you dont want to report it. Why? Youll have to explain that. Someday Ill explain it.Since we released the guidelines to open up America again  and this was two days ago  a number of states, led by both Democrat and Republican governors, have announced concrete steps to begin a safe, gradual, and phased opening.Texas and Vermont will allow certain businesses to open on Monday while still requiring appropriate social distancing precautions. And I can tell you the Governor of Texas, Greg Abbott, he knows what hes doing. Hes a great governor. He knows exactly what hes doing.Montana will begin lifting restrictions on Friday. Ohio, North Dakota, and Idaho have advised nonessential businesses to prepare for a phased opening starting May 1st.Throughout this crisis, my administration has taken unprecedented actions to rush economic relief to our citizens. As an example, you dont hear anymore about ventilators. What happened to the ventilators? And now theyre giving you the other its called testing. Testing. But they dont want to use all of the capacity that weve created. We have tremendous capacity. Dr. Birx will be explaining that. They know that. The governors know that. The Democrat governors know that theyre the ones that are complaining.Through the Paycheck Protection Program, weve already processed nearly 350 billion to 1.6 million small businesses across the nation to keep American workers on the payroll. So were asking the Democrats to get it done. This should be bipartisan. This should be 100 percent vote. And its really been incredible. The 350 billion thats been approved is so popular, and its keeping businesses open. Itll be open hopefully forever.Our swift action is directly supporting 30 million American jobs. Amy Wright, from North Carolina, as an example, said the program is a game changer for her and her family. Its coffee shops. And she has 120 employees, many of whom have developmental and intellectual disabilities. And now theyre all staying, and theyre getting paid. And shes got a dream, and its going to take place very quickly when she opens again. So, Amy, good luck. North Carolina  great place.Scott and Julie Alderink helped lead a church and own a restaurant in South Dakota, with about 15 employees. They were already starting layoffs. Layoffs were moving along rapidly. But now theyve hired their employees back, and they can keep the restaurant open. And itll be moving quickly  very quickly  as opposed to not having anybody and probably not having a place to have all of these people employed. She would have been out of business. She would have been done.The Paycheck Protection Program funding is now fully drained. Its out. Its gone. Three hundred and fifty billion dollars to small businesses. And, in turn, it goes to the employees of those small businesses.Lawmakers must stop blocking these funds and replenish the program without delay. The Democrats have to come onboard. I used to read that these were Democrat programs, not Republican. It seems to have switched around a lot, hasnt it? Huh? Switched around a lot. The republicans want it. I think the Democrats probably do too.But they also want other things that are unacceptable. This is about COVID. This is about the plague and what its done to us. This isnt about extraneous things that theyve been trying to get for years and that our country doesnt want them to have.As we enter the next stage of our battle, we are continuing our relentless effort to destroy the virus. My administration is taking steps to protect highrisk communities by providing funding for 13,000 community health center sites and mobile medical stations.In order to equip them with the most advanced and robust testing capabilities, these sites are incredible. What they can do is incredible. The job they do is incredible. These centers provide care to 28 million people living in medically underserved urban and rural regions, including many African American and Hispanic communities. Were taking care of them. And its so important, because youve all been reading about the disproportionate numbers on African American, and youre reading a little bit less about Hispanic, but likewise Hispanic communities. The numbers are disproportionate. In fact, were doing big studies on it right now. We dont like it. Not right.Nationwide, weve now conducted over 4 million tests, and Deborah will be talking about that. Its double the number conducted by any other country on Earth. So thats more than two times, actually, the number conducted by any other country on Earth. You hear so much about testing. What weve done is incredible on testing. And I started with an obsolete, broken system from a previous administration  or administrations. But I would really say administration for a different reason because testing has become so advanced over the last number of years, and we have the most advanced of all.I spoke with other nations this morning  the leaders  and they all are talking about our great testing capability, and some of them want to know what to do what  how can they get involved, because they need it for their own countries.In Louisiana, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, New York, and other hotspots, we have also tested more people per capita, by far, than Italy, Spain, Germany, France, and the United Kingdom, and all other major countries. So think of that. In New York, for instance, per capita testing is 6 percent higher than in Singapore. In fact, theres a typo. Its 67 percent higher. Thats a big difference.Id say theres a big difference between six percent and sixty  I was looking I said, 6 percent doesnt look too good. Its 67 percent  good job out there  higher than Singapore 64 higher than South Korea and 47 percent higher than Australia. So its 67 percent higher than Singapore, which is a very advanced place in terms of what theyre doing.My administration has also been speaking frequently with many of the governors to help them find and unlock the vast unused testing capacity that exists in their states. Dr. Birx discussed yesterday the commercial and academic laboratories, and the states have tremendous unused capability, which they can use. The governors should use it. Tremendous unused capability, and theyre waiting for business from these governors that  some of them complain. I must tell you, for the most part, were getting along great with them, but some of them like to complain.But I still go back because the hardest thing of all, by far, by a factor of 20, is the ventilators. And now were the king of ventilators. We have ventilators.Were going to be helping other countries very soon. Were going to be helping Mexico. I spoke with the President of Mexico. Hes great. A great guy. And I told him were going to be helping him. They desperately, in Mexico, need ventilators, and I told him were going to be helping him very substantially. Were in a position to do that. Were building, now, thousands a week. And theyre coming in rapidly, and theyre very, very high quality.But were also helping governors to develop strategies to smartly deploy their testing capacity to protect vulnerable and underserved populations, while getting Americans at lower risk safely back to work.So, again, we have tremendous testing capacity. Now, a lot of people like the Abbott test that we came up with. Abbott is a brandnew technology, brandnew test. Its great. Its five minutes, boom, you put it in. And were making thousands of machines. Abbott is making thousands and thousands of machines. But not everybody is going to get that one, but theyre going to get others. We have numerous platforms which well talk about in a minute.Unfortunately, some partisan voices are attempting to politicize the issue of testing, which they shouldnt be doing, because I inherited broken junk. Just as they did with ventilators where we had virtually none, and the hospitals were empty. For the most part, the hospitals didnt have ventilators. We had to take care of the whole country, and we did a job, the likes of which nobody  we assembled an army of young, brilliant people. For the most part, young a couple of older ones. But for the most part, they were young, brilliant geniuses that did a job like nobody would believe. I wish you could have seen it. Around the clock.And now the rest of the world is coming to us, asking if we could help them with ventilators because theyre very complicated, very expensive. Theyre very hard to build. And we have them coming in by the thousands. But you dont hear that from even the governors. Nobody is complaining about ventilators. And if there was a surge, we could have ventilators to them within hours, because we have in stockpile almost 10,000 ventilators.You dont hear about hospital beds. When I first started, everyone was talking, Oh, hospitals beds. Hospitals beds. The governor of New York correctly asked me for hospital beds, and we got the Army Corps of Engineers out, and they built them. He needed them. I mean, he  we went  I know he said that we were projecting. Were not projecting New York. Were listening to the governors. He wanted them. He needed them. And we gave him thousands of beds in Javits Center. We brought the ship. And then the ship, we had it converted to COVID19. And that was a big deal, by the way, because of ventilation and all the things we had to do. But we did.And fortunately for him  and for us, all of us  they havent used either one very much because the numbers have gone down significantly. But it was there, and it was built, and it was beautiful. Two thousand nine hundred beds. It was incredible what they did. They did it in a matter of a few days.But, unfortunately  and it was very good the relationship was very good. And Im, frankly, glad they dont need them, but they were there. Louisiana, the same thing. I think the governor  a Democrat, good guy  and he will, I think, tell you a story that we had more than enough, and I said, Well, were supposed to build one more. I called him and I said, You know, if we dont have to build this hospital  it was an additional anywhere from 500 to 1,000 beds. If you dont need it, would it be possible that we dont build it? Wed like to build it someplace else, or not build it at all and save money, which is okay for government to use it someplace else. And he called call me back the next day and he said, Sir, we dont need it. I said, Thats great that you say that. I appreciate it. And he didnt need it.But we were ready to go, and we took good care of Louisiana. We took good care of Michigan. We took good care of every place. We didnt  we didnt miss a trick.And were in great shape on testing. We have different platforms. We actually have nine different platforms. And on Monday, were going to be adding one thatll be 9 to 10. I dont like to count on them before theyre up, but well have anywhere from 9 to 10 platforms with a tremendous testing capability. And people can go, and especially with phase one.Now, at the same time  just like with ventilators  were building now the best ventilators. Just like with ventilators, our testing is getting better and better. I took the first test. The first test was not pleasant. This was not a pleasant thing. I said, You got to be kidding to the doctor. You got to be kidding. Up your nose and then we hang a right, and it goes down here. And then well wiggle it around here, under your eye. And then well pull it out and well say  I said, No, thats  theres no way that can happen. Is that the way it goes? You sure? This was a very unpleasant test.And then I was tested a few weeks later with the new test that just came out, the Abbott, where they just touch your nose, basically. And they put it in a machine, and literally, a few minutes later, they tell you if youre fine. And I was lucky in both cases, because Ive seen the damage that this does to people.But we have great tests. Theyve really gotten better and better and better as we go along. But we have a tremendous lab capability  laboratory capability all over the country. And for some reason, the governors, theyre not  a lot of them are, but some of the governors like to complain, and theyre not using it. We have tremendous capability. Were ready for them.And, as we go along, just like with ventilators, well get better, more advanced, and, you know, itll be  well be able to do things that nobody would have even believed possible. But we started off with a broken system. We inherited a broken, terrible system.And I always say it Our cupboards were bare. We had very little in our stockpile. Now were loaded up. And we also loaded up these hospitals. And, you know, were talking about payment. We gave billions of dollars worth of things to hospitals, and well have to work that out at some point. In fact, I guess theyre going to be working that out with Congress.But we loaded up hospitals. The federal government loaded up hospitals with things to take care of people that are very desperately  were not  we werent worried about payment at that time. We said, Youll take care of it at the right time.But we gave billions and billions and billions of dollars worth of medical goods and medicines and equipment to hospitals. And well  well work it out with them. But people dont like to talk about that.So we have done a job that nobody believed  this was a military and private enterprises march. We marched  and, unfortunately, with the other side, because theyre viewing it as an election. How did President Trump do? Oh, he did, uh, terribly. Lets see. He did  uh, yeah, he did terribly. Oh. But we just got them the ventilators that they didnt have, that they should have had. We just got them hospital beds by the thousands. We just got them testing that they dont even know how to use. In some cases, they have machines that theyre only using 5 percent and 10 percent of the machine, because they have an advanced machine and they dont know how to use it. It can use  it can do much more. So weve had people explain how to use it.So, I dont know, I dont think I do that on the other side. I dont  I really dont. I think that here we have a crisis that we have to work together, and I hope were going to work together. But were moving along, and were moving along well. Were moving along well.This should not be a partisan witch hunt  you know?  like the Russia hunt that turned out to be a total phony deal. Unfortunately, some of these voices, though, are attempting to  to bring this into politics. And whether its testing or ventilators or hospital beds, or other dimensions of our sweeping public health response  we have had a sweeping response.In speaking to the leaders of other countries this morning, they said, This is incredible the way youve done this so quickly. You know, were only talking about a few weeks since everybody knew this was such a big problem. And the rest of the world is watching, and they respect what weve done because I dont think anybody else  I know nobody else could have done what weve done. And we started with garbage.As our experts said yesterday, Americas testing capability and capacity is fully sufficient to begin opening up the country, totally. Indeed, our system is by far the most robust and advanced anywhere in the world, by far. The rest of the world will tell you that.I spoke this morning to a friend of mine, President Moon of South Korea. He just won the election. He won it by a lot. He had a big victory, which I was happy about. And he was saying what a great job weve done in this country. I told him the same thing. He said what a great job weve done here in this country. So I appreciated that. He had a great  by the way, he had a great victory and were very happy about that, from the standpoint of our country. Were working very well with them  South Korea.As we approach  and the approach that we use  but as we approach, hopefully, the downward side of whats going on, I think youre going to see some incredible hard facts and evidence that what we did was right. Theres a lot of talk about herd  the word herd. I dont want to show you charts of people that went a different way, but its scary. Its scary.We would have had, I think, millions of people die had we done a different way. And I think numbers are just coming out where theyre estimating 60,000 people will die. Thats horrible. I always say one person is too much, especially in this case, when it could have been stopped in China. It could have been stopped in China, before it started, and it wasnt. And the whole world is suffering because of it.But this herd concept  and everybody had to think of it at the beginning, because, look  look at us We had the greatest economy in the history of the world. Better than China better than any country in the world better than any country has ever had. We had the highest stock market in history, by far. And Im honored by the fact that it has started to go up very substantially. Thats because the market is smart. The market is actually brilliant. Ive seen it. And theyre viewing it like weve done a good job. They view it that way.Because if you would have told me that were at 24,000 or beyond, and the highest we were ever was  we never hit 30. We were getting close to 30, so lets say around 29,000. Were at 24. If we were heading down, I would start to say, Oh, wow, we may be heading into territory where I started. I didnt like that. Now were way up. But if you would have said to me with what weve gone through  not caused by our country or our people or any  I mean, not caused by certainly anybody within our country. But if you would have said that, after going through this horrible plague, that wed have a stock market thats much, much higher than when I started, much higher than where I started  and I think its  you know, I think we have tremendous momentum. We have a big election coming up, but I think we have tremendous momentum.First, we get rid of the plague. And because of what were doing with the PPP, what were doing with the Paycheck, as we call it, I think we have a chance to have these companies get back to action quickly.But our approach to testing is based on facts, data, and very hard evidence, not partisan agendas or coordinated political talking points.Mike Pence, whos a phenomenal guy, hes making the commencement address right now at the Air Force Academy, where theyre being very politically correct. Everyone is standing not 6 feet but 10 feet apart. Okay? And its very different. I made that speech last year. Im going to West Point. I think theyre changing the date to June 13th because of whats going on in New York. Theyre moving into June 13th. West Point.So Im doing their commencement speech, and theyre going to have  its sad because  but its a big start  theyre going to have the cadets. They may not have the parents, but theyre going to have the cadets. The parents are so proud of them. I know at the Air Force Academy, where Mike is speaking right now, they dont have the parents they have the cadets. Theyre very, very widespread.And you talk about social distancing  I mean, they are really spread. I looked at it. They using 10 feet. So hes  hes doing that. But theyre having it. Its very important to have it. And thats a great thing. Thats a great thing. Thats a big start.So hes there right now. And I will tell you, they  hes a gentleman, Mike Pence. A real gentleman. And they requested  the Democrat senators requested a phone call with him yesterday. And I think they had, for the most part, all of them on  like, approximately 47. I heard it was just about all of them, whatever it might be. I dont want to be wrong by 1 or 2 or 10 and have the press say, He lied. He told a lie. Terrible, terrible. Whatever it was. But they have 47, and I guess most of them were on.I heard they were so rude. I used a term today  I said, rude and nasty. But I heard they were so rude. No matter what he said, which was all very positive in terms of winning this battle against the invisible enemy  no matter what he said, they were fresh. They were nasty.And it was, I heard, just a terrible thing. And I said, Mike, thats politics. Thats what it is. If we came into this room today and said, The battle is over. We have won. Its 100 percent gone. The Democrats would say, The President has done a horrible job. He has done a disgraceful job. It is a shame how bad he is.You know, its  its  this is the talking points this is political. And it would be nice not to have that, especially when weve done the job weve done. I mean, all you have to do is look at the big  the big V for victory or V for ventilator. Take a look at it. Everybody said they had us on that they had us. They thought they had us, but we got them done at numbers that nobody would have believed.And we did use our Act, our Production Act, and we used it. But didnt use it  we didnt need it like a hammer. All we had to do  for the most part  we used it, actually, in a number of cases. But for the most part, all we had to do is talk about it. All we had to do is say, Were going to use it if you dont do this. And everybody was, you know, for the most part, good. We used it a couple of times because it didnt work out the easy way, but it worked out the hard way.But whether it was masks or ventilator, it was incredible what weve been able to do. So this is a very critical time for the American people, and the American people deserve real information, and responsible and thoughtful dialogue from their elected leaders and from the media.The media has been  some very honest, but some very dishonest. You know that. You know that. I mean, I even read a story where Mark Meadows  a tough guy  he was crying he was crying. This was a Maggie Haberman. You know, she won a Pulitzer Prize for her coverage of Russia, but she was wrong on Russia. So was everyone else. They should all give back their Pulitzer Prizes.In fact, it turned out that the crime was committed by the other side. The crime was not committed by this side it was committed by the other side  a bunch of bad people. You saw the reports coming out over the last two weeks. They got caught. So Maggie Haberman gets a Pulitzer Prize? Shes a thirdrate reporter. New York Times.And we put her name up here last week. You saw that. People thought it was a commercial. It wasnt a commercial. It was like a commercial, but it wasnt a commercial. It was just clips. And because we exposed her as being a bad reporter, what happened is she came out and said Mark Meadows was crying. And they made it sound  I said, Mark  and its okay if he did. I wouldnt  you know, look. But I think he was crying probably  really, for the wrong reason they had it down. But hes not a crier. And if he was  I know criers. I could tell you people that you know that are very famous. They cry, and thats okay too.But it was a nasty story in so many ways. It was fake news. And she only did it because we exposed her for being a terrible, dishonest reporter. She is. Ive known her for a long while. I havent spoken to her in a long time. I made the mistake I take a picture with her at the desk, a long time ago. Every time she does a story, if I say  I havent spoken to her in long  many, many, many months, maybe years. I dont speak to her. Shes fake. A lot of people are fake. A lot of people We got a lot of fake people.But what happens is she writes this story as retribution. Puts it in the New York Times. And the New York Times is a very dishonest newspaper. Its my opinion. Its not an opinion. Its actually, from my standpoint  you know, the very hard thing to figure, though Most people wouldnt know that, but I know it because I know the facts.And they make up  I said it today they make up words. Sources say Most often used Sources say You know what sources say means? Sources say means they have nobody. And they make it up. Okay?And they have a few other type statements that mean the same thing. But sources say is the most oftenused express  in the Washington Post New York Times, especially CNN  fake news. CNN.They should really be mandated, and I mean mandated to use a name. If theres a source, use a name. Say that Kayleigh  Kayleigh McEnany said or somebody. And youd find out that the  number one, the source wouldnt say it. The sources dont exist. I dont believe the sources exist.And I try and tell this  you know, the beautiful thing about doing these conferences is that we have tremendous numbers of viewers, and Im able to reach the viewers without having to go through fake news, where they make a good story into a bad story.So, with all of that, its been an incredible period of time. Weve done a fantastic job. Were the talk of other nations. The leaders of other nations are calling us for help. Theyre calling us for equipment. Theyre calling us for testing capacities.Now, with the testing, we are going further. Deborah is going to talk about that now. With the testing, we have some other tests coming up that are going to be, I think, phenomenal. I think theyre going to blow away everything as soon as they come out, and were going to get them out as soon as possible.But Id like to ask Dr. Birx to come up and say a few words about where weve come, how far weve come, and more importantly, where were going from this point. Because honestly, its  its quite amazing. Thank you very much.DR. BIRX Thank you, Mr. President. If we could have the first slide.I wanted to give you an update on where we are as states and as counties and as cities. I know you all are watching carefully. The numbers have shifted over the last few days. What happens when nations  when states change the reporting from confirmed to probable? So now all probable cases are included. They had to add them back in. Even though the cases may have been from March, they were added over 14, 15, and 16th of April, and states may continue to be adding them. Eventually, were hoping that those get accounted for on the day when the presumptive cases or the probable cases were counted. But right now, theyre added in, in one fell swoop.So this is New York and New Jersey, and I think we all know how difficult and what a difficult time both New York and New Jersey have had. I call your attention to the axis it goes up to 250,000 cases. So you can get a frame of how were talking about some of the other metro areas.Next slide.This is the 25 metro areas  the top 25 metro areas. And you can only see the New York metro area in this slide. Again, the axis goes up to about 300,000. It includes the New Jersey part of the metro area, as well as part of southern Connecticut.Next slide.But if I take New York out  and the reason I wanted to do that  now the axis is onetenth of the previous axis. So that previous ax  the previous slide, 300,000. This slide, 30,000. So that will give you a frame of reference for some of these other metros.The reason I wanted to show you this is this is cumulative cases. And we are still tracking, very closely, the issues in Chicago and Boston. But on this slide, I hope you can see the yellow line that is Detroit. And Detroit and this mayor of Detroit has really done an extraordinary job, and the people of Detroit have done an extraordinary job with their social distancing.The other line I want to call your attention to is the line here. This is New Orleans. And I think  frankly, I was concerned about New Orleans because they had a lot of preexisting comorbidities. They only  they have two or three major hospitals, but a large cover, a very large area of geographic area.And that other blue line that you can see  its down right here  thats the Seattle line. And you can see that their response, because of the nursing home alert, they were one of the first states and the first metro areas to really move to social distancing. And so theyve really never had a peak, like many of the other metros.Next slide.Then I just want to take you through some of these new case graphics. That was cumulative cases. This is daily cases. And obviously, theres a lot of variability, and variability in reporting, but you get a sense over time, when you look at daily cases.So New Orleans is on the  on panel on your left, and Baton Rouge on your right. But you can see clearly, New Orleans, about a month ago, very low levels, probably less than 50 cases. Large peak and spike around the beginning of April. And they have come down, and they have it down to very few cases. Again, I showed you before how both their syndromic cases have come down, as well as their actual case  number of cases.Next slide.This is Seattle. So you can see they had a much lower peak. And this is  when we talked about flattening the curve, this is what flattening the curve looks like. It becomes a longer, slower decline, but it ever gets very high, and then goes back down.Next slide.And then this is Detroit. And we always look at the metros as a consolidated. So this is both Wayne and Oakland in Michigan. And we really want to thank the mayor for the incredible job that they have done to really ensure that everyone is receiving the adequate healthcare and testing, and theyve done quite a good job with testing in Michigan.But all of these states  Louisiana and New York have tested 30,000 per million inhabitants. Those are some of our highest numbers across the board.And next slide.And so the President talked about the case fatality rates, and we really  weve lost a lot of Americans to this disease, and we pray and hope for each one of them that are in the hospitals and the excellent care.What this graph illustrates is the amazing work of the American people to really adhere to social distancing. This was some  this was nothing we had ever attempted to do as a nation, and the world hadnt attempted to do. But they were able to decrease the number of cases so that, in general, most of the metro areas never had an issue of complete crisis care of all of their hospitals in the region.And so you can see our case fatality rate is about half to a third of many of the other countries.THE PRESIDENT And, excuse me, does anybody really believe this number? Does anybody really believe this number?DR. BIRX I put China on there so you could see how basically unrealistic this could be. When highly developed healthcare delivery systems  the United Kingdom and France and Belgium and Italy and Spain  with extraordinary doctors and nurses and equipment have case fatality rates in the 20s, up to 45, and Belgiums extraordinarily competent healthcare delivery system, and then China at .33, you realize that these numbers, even  and this includes the doubled number out of Wuhan.And so I wanted, really, to put it in perspective, but I wanted you also to see how great the care has been for every American that has been hospitalized and how extraordinary work of our doctors and nurses in our laboratorians on the front line who have been doing an excellent job.Next slide.And then we also wanted to show THE PRESIDENT If I might add, though, also DR. BIRX Yeah.THE PRESIDENT  the number for Iran. Does anybody really believe that number? You see whats going on over there. Does anybody  put that slide back, if you would. Does anybody believe this number? Does anybody believe this number? You saw more bags DR. BIRX And this is why THE PRESIDENT  on television than that.DR. BIRX This is why the reporting is so important. And I think you remember, almost six weeks ago, maybe a month ago, I was telling you what Italy was showing to us and what France was telling to us, and the warnings that they gave to us and said, Be very careful. Theres an extraordinary high mortality among people with preexisting conditions. And we used their information to bring that to the American people.That came  that alert  that alert, before we even had significant cases, came from our European colleagues on the front line. And thats why we keep coming back to how important, in a pandemic and a new disease, its really critical to have that level of transparency because it changes how we work as a nation. It allowed us on  over March 15 to make an alert out there about vulnerable individuals and the  really, they need to protect them, and my callout to millennials to really protect their parents, protect their grandparents, and get that information out to everyone that there were preexisting conditions that put people at greater risk. That information came from our European colleagues who were in the midst of their battle themselves.And so there is never an excuse to not share information. When you are the first country to have an outbreak, you really have a moral obligation to the world to not only talk about it, but provide that information thats critical to the rest of the world to really respond to this credibly.And I really want to thank our European colleagues who have worked so hard to get us that information, even in the midst of their own tragedies. And I think that really shows how important transparency is.And we go to the next slide.We can show you this really encouraging and great news So we know that fatalities will continue to lag because people are in hospitals still, and some are still sit in intensive care units.But these COVIDlike illnesses  this is our hospitalizations that are related to flu per 100,000 Americans. This is this years flu season. And you can see our COVIDlike illnesses. And this is all of them, probable and confirmed cases. Our hospitalizations are declining.Now, I showed you metros that have made tremendous progress, and weve been up here many times talking about it being 6, 10, 15 additional cities. And now were really just focused on Chicago and Boston and Massachusetts, and really some issues that Providence is starting to improve now. So their relationship to the two large outbreak cities. But this is really reassuring to us, the progress were making across the country against this disease.And Im  just really want to conclude by thanking again the American people for making these type of graphics possible thank the data team who puts these together for me. So they are working until about 330 every morning to make sure that we have the most uptodate information. Thats the data that goes to our supplychain individuals to ensure that every hospital in every state and every community has what they need based on data, and to make sure that were serving the needs of the American people as effectively as possible.Thank you, Mr. President.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much, Deborah. Fantastic job. Is this yours?DR. BIRX Yes.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much.The fact is that weve been learning a lot from Deborah and Tony and so many of the professionals, the director.PEPFAR Were spending  the United States, without help, to the best of my knowledge  mostly in Africa, 6 billion a year. And thats on AIDS. What weve done for AIDS in Africa is unbelievable. We spend 6 billion a year. Thats been going on for a long time. Nobody knows that youve never heard that. Ive never heard that. Six billion dollars a year.Millions of people are living right now, and living very comfortably, because of the fact that we have found the answer to that horrible, horrible plague. That was a plague.But we spent 6 billion a year. And from what I hear, its very well spent, done by professionals, including this great professional right here. That was the thing that you worked hardest on and something that was very close to her heart. So its  you know, its something that I think people should start hearing.The World Health Organization Were just finding more and more problems. And we spend this money really well. There are other ways we can spend the 500 million. Thats 500 million this is 6 billion. But we can find other ways to spend it where people are going to be helped, we think, in a much greater  in a much greater way.Were doing some research on certain people that take a lot of credit for what they do. And NIH is giving away a lot of money  a lot of money. Wed give away for years  for many years, theyd give away a lot of money. And some people complain and some people dont. Some people are extremely happy. So were looking into that also.Theyre giving away approximately, as I understand it, recently, more than 32 billion a year. Thirtytwo billion. And so weve been looking at that for a while, and were going to be having some statements to be made about that. Thirtytwo billion dollars a year. Its a lot of money, and we want to make sure its being spent wisely. And weve been doing that, by the way, and well have some statements on that.And those are much bigger numbers then what were talking about with national  if you  if you look, with the  with our friends from wherever they come from. You know, 500  500 million is a lot of money, but its not a lot compared to the kind of money that we give out. I think, over the years, its been averaging about 32 billion dollars. Thirtytwo billion. So weve had our eye on that one for a while.We also talked about the lab in China where, I guess, 3.7 million was given some time ago. And were looking at that very closely. Chief of Staff has that pretty much under control. But its money that  too bad it got spent there. But that was spent  what year was that, Mark? That was four or five years ago?MR. MEADOWS That was over the last six years. Yes.THE PRESIDENT Six years ago, approximately. So were looking at that. And thats the lab that people are talking about.All right, so were looking at a lot of things. Theres tremendous waste in our government. We found it in many different ways and in many different forms. And this is one of them. This is one of them.We can spend  I was talking to Dr. Birx  we can spend 500 million using all of it in a much more efficient manner if were  if we choose to do that. And itll be to the good of many more people than are getting it right now.But you look at the mistakes that were made  I mean, so late, long after I said we have to close off our country. They were actually against our closing off our country to China. When I did that in January, they were against that. They didnt like the idea of closing off our country. They said it was a bad thing to do, actually, and theyve since taken that back. But it was a very lucky thing that we did it. Very lucky. We would have had numbers that were very significantly greater. Tony Fauci said that. He said it would have been very significantly greater had we not done that.So weve made a lot of moves that were good moves, but its still a very depressing subject because its a lot of death. And if it was stopped very early on at the source, before it started blowing into these proportions, you have 184 countries that would have been in a lot better shape. But our country is getting back, and I expect that were going to be bigger, better, and stronger than ever before.All right, well take a few questions. Jeff.