James S. Brady Press Briefing Room622 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Thank you. Thank you very much. I just had a great conversation with the leading faith leaders of our country. It went extremely well. We learned a lot. I learned a lot. And were working on some things that are very interesting and very positive. I thank them all for being on the call.And yesterday, we unveiled detailed guidelines for Americas governors to initiate a phased, safe, and gradual reopening of America. Thats whats happening. The guidelines provide governors with the factdriven and sciencebased metrics they will need to make the decisions that are right for their own particular state.To view the guidelines, you can go to the website at Whitehouse.govOpeningAmerica. So thats Whitehouse.govOpeningAmerica.Treasury has sent out economic relief payments to more than 80 million Americans who have their direct deposit information on file with the IRS. And an incredible success it has been. If you have not received your check, please visit IRS.govGetMyPayment. How about that one? IRS.govGetMyPayment. That way, the IRS can get you your payment in days  and theyve done a fantastic job, I have to say  and you wont have to wait for a check in the mail.I have some very good news We sent out 80 million deposits, and less than 1 percent had even little problems. A couple had minor glitches, but its substantially less than 1 percent. So out of 80 million deposits, less than 1 percent. And that gets corrected immediately. So just please do as I say. Youll get that very quickly, very easily.Today, Im also announcing that Secretary Perdue  who happens to be right next to me handsome man  and the Department of Agriculture will be implementing a 19billiondollar relief program for our great farmers and ranchers as they cope with the fallout of the global pandemic. Very honored to be doing this. Our farmers, ranchers  we have  these are great people, great Americans. Never complain. They never complain. They just do what they have to do.The program will include direct payments to farmers as well as mass purchases of dairy, meat, and agricultural produce to get that food to the people in need.The USDA will receive another 14 billion in July that will have funding to continue help our  helping. And this will help our farmers and our ranchers, and its money well deserved. So not only were they targeted at one point by China  and that was over a period of time, and you saw that happening. And they never complained, but that worked out very well. Twelve billion dollars they got, and sixteen billion dollars they got. And now its 19 billion.And Im just going to ask Secretary Perdue to explainexactly how were going to handle it. Thank you.SECRETARY PERDUE Well, Mr. President, you may remember earlier this year, you tweeted a message to our farmers and ranchers that, no matter their circumstances, you pledged to stand behind them. And while none of us could ever have anticipated this type of pandemic that were currently in, I think todays announcement is proof that youve put our  you have our farmers backs and that you will continue to do what it takes to support them. And they are very grateful.Weve heard a lot recently  all of you  about our food supply chain. I think America now knows that, more than ever, the wholesome food that our families depend upon, it starts with Americas farmers and ranchers. America agriculture has been hard hit, like most of America, with the coronavirus, and President Trump is standing with our farmers and all Americans to make sure we all get through this national emergency.So today, thanks to your direction and leadership, Mr. President, USDA is announcing the Coronavirus Food Assistance Program. As you mentioned, this new 19billiondollar program will take several immediate actions to assist farmers, ranchers, and consumers in response to the COVID19 national emergency.The program is really divided into two parts. One is a direct payment  16 billion in direct payments to farmers, ranchers, and producers who have experienced unprecedented losses during this pandemic.Since we wanted to get the payments out to producers as quickly as possible, we decided to use the funds in the CCC  the current funds of 6.5 million  billion dollars, combined with the 19.5 of COVID money, rather than wait for the replenishment of the CCC funds in July. Based on industry estimates of damage, Mr. President, it is becoming apparent that well need the additional CCC funds as we continue to track the economic losses.Secondly  and this is really important as well  the USDA will be purchasing 3 billion in fresh produce, dairy, and meat products to be distributed to Americans in need through our food bank networks, as well as other community and faithbased organizations. Having to dump milk or plow under vegetables ready to market is not only financially distressing, but its heartbreaking, as well, to those who produce them.This program will not only provide direct financial relief to our farmers and ranchers, Mr. President, who will allow for the purchase and distribution of our agricultural abundance in this country to help our fellow Americans in need.So in recent weeks, weve seen  all of us seen the heroic patriotism of our food supplychain workers, and theyve shown, day in and day out, doing the work to serve the needs of fellow Americans.Our farmers have been in the fields planting and doing what they do every spring to feed the American people, even with a pandemic, as we speak.I want to thank you, Mr. President, for your unwavering support. They want to thank you for your unwavering support for Americas farmers and ranchers. And I want to commit to you, Mr. President, and to the American people that USDA will do everything in our power to implement this program as quickly and as efficiently as possible to help our farmers, ranchers, producers, and consumers during this great time of need.So thank you very much for having me here today. And God bless you. God bless America. God bless American agriculture.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Sonny. Fantastic job. Thank you, Sonny.So, our great Secretary of Agriculture was the governor of Georgia for eight years, and the only reason he isnt still there, frankly, is that he was term limited. And I said, Lets get him for agriculture. And youve done a fantastic job. We want to thank you very much. Eight years at Georgia. We really appreciate it. Great job.Even as we prepare to rebuild our economy, America continues to wage an allout medical war to defeat the invisible enemy. To date, we have conducted more than 3.78 million coronavirus tests  by far, the most of any country its not even close. In the hardesthit areas, such as New York and Louisiana, weve also tested more people per capita than South Korea, Singapore, and every other country.The United States has the most robust, advanced, and accurate testing system anywhere in the world. As of yesterday, we have distributed nearly 660,000 Abbott IDs. Now, thats a  an incredible test. Its called the ID NOW pointofcare diagnostic test. And its fantastic. Its a hot  its the hot one. The problem with this business is its the hot one until about two days from now, because we do have a saliva test that just came out, and that can be selfadministered, and its said to be fantastic.I want to thank Abbott Laboratories. They have been incredible. I want to thank Roche. Theyve likewise been incredible.Over the last several days, weve seen a dramatic increase in the number of tests conducted by hospitals and academic institutions, which have now performed nearly 600,000 tests. There is a tremendous amount of unused capacity in the states available for governors to tap. We have tremendous unused capability within those laboratories, and I hope the governors are going to be able to use them. The governors are responsible for testing, and I hope theyre going to be able to use this tremendous amount of available capacity that we have.Its up to 1 million additional tests per week  when you think of that. In the next few weeks, well be sending out 5.5 million testing swabs to the states. Swabs can be done easily by the governors themselves. Mostly, its cotton. Its not a big deal. You can get cotton easily. But if they cant get it, we will take care of it.Yesterday, the FDA announced a new collaboration with United Health Group, the Gates Foundation, Quantigen, and U.S. Cotton to greatly expand the supply of essential swabs, including a new polyester Qtiptype swab for the coronavirus testing. All of these actions will help our testing capability continue to grow dramatically.So were helping people, even with swabs. We get ventilators. Were now the king of ventilators. We have hundreds of thousands under construction. We dont need them ourselves. The governors are in great shape. If we do, we have a great stockpile that well immediately send to the state in need. But weve handled that situation incredibly well. I hope people understand it. I wish the media would get the word out. What weve done in ventilators is amazing, because theyre big, expensive, and highly complex.Were speaking to other countries. I spoke to the President of Mexico today  a great gentleman  and I told him that we are going to be helping him out with ventilators, helping Mexico out. And well be helping some other countries too. We have a lot of very highlevel, highquality ventilators. And theyre here, and theyre also being manufactured as we speak.Following the announcement of our reopening guidelines, there have been some very partisan voices in the media and in politics who have spread false and misleading information about our testing capacity  its totally false and misleading  demonstrating a complete failure to understand the enormous scope of the testing capabilities that weve brought online. And we started, really, from ground zero. We started from really being very, very outdated and obsolete as a country, from the past.And I will say this If they didnt understand it, its just really  unfortunately, I hate to say this because weve been getting along very well, but it would be false reporting, because they understand the capability. And its going to be up to the states to use that capability. The states have local points where they can go  a governor can call the mayors, and the mayors can call representatives, and everybody  everything is perfect. And thats the way it should work and always should work.Well help New York and all of the other states get even better on their testing. We have to get even better. And some people think a little bit differently. There are areas where you have vast amounts of area where you have very few people and almost no people are infected. And those places will be looked upon differently by different governors. And I think youre going to have a lot of news coming out about that over the next few days. I think certain states are going to come online, and theyre going to start the early stages of the puzzle that were putting together. And its going to be together sooner rather than later. A lot of really incredible things are happening.And at some point in the nottoodistant future, were going to have our country back. And its going to be, I think, really  with what were doing on stimulus, and helping people keep their businesses together and their lives together and their jobs, its going to be better than ever before. I hope so. I really do.The current conversation is reminiscent of what happened on ventilators  you remember that  when requests were made far beyond what was objectively needed. We were hearing from a certain state and we were hearing from a lot that they needed far more ventilators. In one case, they wanted 40,000 ventilators  40,000. It turned out that they had plenty and they had a number of about 7 or 8,000, and that was plenty. We supplied them with a lot. But that was the right number we got it just about right. And if they did need more, were ready to give more, but I think the surge seems to be over.And there are a lot of governors just doing a great job. And theyre working with us, but were all working together.The research and development that weve done at the federal level has been absolutely incredible. The media will be accepting of these figures when they get to see the end result. I think theyre going to see it and I think theyre already seeing it. That includes not only ventilators, but beds. Weve built, in most cases, far more than they even needed, but we wanted to err on the side of caution.This is what the governors wanted. They wanted a certain amount in Louisiana. I spoke with the governor I had a long talk with him. And I said, Do you think youll need that final hospital? And they actually didnt need it. We built a lot of  a lot of beds. So, I appreciate it, from the governor.And we saved  building a hospital in New York, we did a  I think, just a spectacular job at the Javits Center. And even sending the ship up became  we brought it into COVID, but they didnt  they didnt really need it. It didnt get much use, but it was there and ready. It wasnt supposed to be used for that purpose we changed it into that purpose. And it was there  ready, willing, and able. Same with Javits, but they didnt quite need the rooms that we  the beds that we  we produced.So we produced almost 2,900 beds, and I think Id rather tell you that we were overprepared that we were  than we were underprepared. And that was a goodfaith effort by New York, I have to say that. A very good faith effort. But its nice that we didnt need that, instead of needing it. It was not very occupied, but it was ready to go. Its still there should something happen, but I think they have it under very good control.As youll hear from our experts today, weve already built sufficient testing capacity nationwide for states to begin their reopenings. And I think youll be hearing a lot about reopenings in the coming weeks and months. Most excitingly, in the coming weeks, I think youre going to see some very, very dramatic steps taken and very safely. Were putting safety first. We may be opening, but were putting safety first.And when you look at the numbers, when you look at the possible number of death  deaths at 2.2 million people  and it could have very well been that. It could have been more. Frankly, Ive been looking at numbers where it could have been higher than that  2.2 million people dying. If you figure we lost 500,000, maybe 600,000 in the Civil War. 2.2 million people.A minimum, if we did nothing, would have been 1.6 million. If you cut that in half, youre talking about 800,000, 900,000, a million people dying. But we did a lot of work, and the people of this country were incredible, I have to say. And I think were heading to the other category, and that would be if we did work and if it was successful, they had between 100,000 and 220,000 to 240,000 on the upside. And I think well be substantially, hopefully, below the hundred number. And I think, right now, were heading at probably around 60, maybe 65,000.And one is too many. I always say it One is too many. This is a horrible thing that happened to our country. This is a horrible thing that happened to 184 countries all over the world. This is a horrible thing, and there was no reason for it. It should never, ever happen again.In a few minutes, youll be hearing from Dr. Redfield, Dr.Fauci, Dr. Birx, and Admiral Giroir to explain these facts in  in really great detail.Earlier this week, the FDA authorized two new antibody tests  which is very exciting  that will determine if someone has been previously infected with the virus, bringing the total to four authorized antibody tests already. This will help us assess the number of cases that have been asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic, and support our efforts to get Americans back to work by showing us who might have developed the wonderful, beautiful immunity.Ultimate victory in this war will be made possible by Americas scientific brilliance. There is nothing like us. There is nobody like us. Not even close. I wish I could tell you stories  what other countries, even powerful countries, say to me  the leaders. They say it quietly and they say it off the record, but they have great respect for what we can do.And our country is at a point  a few weeks ago, think of it  four or five weeks ago, we were at a level that nobody had ever attained the best job numbers weve ever had, the best economy weve ever had. Every company virtually was doing better business than ever before. The stock market was at alltime highs.And then one day, they said, You got to close it up. And we did the right thing. We saved maybe millions of lives by doing it the way we did it. But were paying a price, but that price is very unimportant compared to the number of lives were talking about.The NIH and others are conducting clinical trials of 35 different therapies and treatments  therapies being so exciting to me, because thats really like  if something happens, youre going to get better reasonably quickly and without such a horrible deal, as some people have to go through.To that end, today NIH announced that it is launching a publicprivate partnership with more than a dozen biopharmaceutical companies. Theyre  HHS, FDA, CDC, and the European Medicines Agency, theyre all working together. Were working together with a lot of other countries.The partnership will marshal and coordinate the vast resources, knowledge, assets, and authorities of more than a dozen organizations and agencies to accelerate development of the most promising therapies and vaccines. The vaccines are coming along really, really well. Johnson  Johnson is very well advanced.One thing is they have to  were having great, great success, but we have to test them and it takes a long period of time. It takes probably over a year, unfortunately. But therapies likewise are coming along very, very well. Therapies are immediate. When we get that, thatll be a big day.Were also equipping our medical warriors on the frontlines. In total, we have the Project Air Bridge  and the air bridge has been incredible the National Strategic Stockpile and every other channel the federal government has deployed. If you think about this 44.5 million N95 masks, nearly 524 million gloves, 63.5 million surgical masks, and more than 10 million gowns. And we have 500 million masks coming in very soon, between manufacturing and orders  500 million masks.The last few months have been among the most challenging times in the history of our nation. This invisible enemy is tough and its smart and its vicious. But every day, were getting closer to the future that we all have been waiting for. I talk about the light at the end of the tunnel we are getting very, very close to seeing that light shine very brightly at the end of that tunnel.And its happening, and I want to thank everybody in the room. I want to thank  I actually want to thank some of the media. Weve had some fair coverage  some really fair coverage  and I appreciate it.What Im going to do is Im going to introduce our great Vice President, Mike Pence, and hes going to take over for a little while. Im going to leave and Im coming right back, and well take some questions. Theyre going to go over our tremendous testing capabilities. And again, Ill be right back.Thank you. Thank you very much.THE VICE PRESIDENT Thank you, Mr. President, and good afternoon all.Today, as the President just reflected, it remains a challenging time in the life of our nation. But because of the extraordinary efforts of the American people, because of the strong partnership the federal government has forged with states across the country, were making progress, America.Despite the  the tragic loss of more than 36,000 Americans, according to our best data reporting this morning, we continue to see new cases low and steady on the West Coast. And we continue to see cases and hospitalizations declining in the Greater New York City area, in New Orleans, and Detroit, and elsewhere.This is a tribute, first and foremost, to our  our healthcare doctors, nurses  all of those working on the frontlines. But its also a great tribute to the American people, who have put into practice the social distancing, the guidelines, the guidance of state and local officials. And we  we hope that every American is encouraged by the steady progress that we are making.Were continuing to bring, at the Presidents direction, the full resources of the federal government to bear. Today, the President approved a major disaster declaration for American Samoa, and now all 50 states and all territories are under major disaster declarations for the first time in American history.At this present moment, 33,000 National Guardsmen are on duty 5,500 active duty military personnel have been deployed to 9 states, including 716 medical professionals, doctors, and nurses who deployed out to 14 different hospitals today. Among those were 10 hospitals in New York City. And military personnel were also serving today in hospitals in Connecticut, Texas, Louisiana, and New Jersey.Yesterday, as the President reflected, we unveiled the Presidents Guidelines for Opening up America Again. There were two parts at the beginning of those guidelines. First, the criteria that we hope will guide governors in their decisions about reopening their states on either a statewide level or a county level. And then also, we outlined what we believe would be the most important state responsibilities to have in place before moving into a reopening plan.For phase one, the Presidents guidelines, youll recall it advised that states that have a downward trajectory in cases over a 14day period of time and ensure that they have proper capacity in their healthcare facilities could move to phase one with the easing of some of the social distancing and the criteria that have been in place.But for states that meet the criteria, we outlined specific responsibilities protecting workers in critical industries, particularly protecting the most vulnerable, those who live and work in senior care facilities. And we also encouraged states to have a plan for testing symptomatic individuals and ensuring testing to our most vulnerable populations.As the President has made clear, governors will decide the time and manner that their states reopen, and we will look to support them in that effort. But as we assured the American people yesterday, at the Presidents direction, our administration will continue to work with governors across the country to ensure that they have the equipment and the supplies and the testing resources to reopen safely and responsibly.On the subject of supplies, today we issued a letter to our nations governors summarizing all the medical equipment and supplies that have been distributed to their state from FEMA between the first of this month and April 14, through Project Airbridge and through the commercial supply network. Well be speaking with our nations governors on Monday and detailing that information at that time.As of April 16th, as the President reflected briefly, FEMA has coordinated the delivery of millions of pieces of medical equipment, including 44 million N95 respirators, 63 million surgical masks, more than 10,000 ventilators, and of course, deployed more than 8,600 federal medical station beds.On the subject of testing resources, were going to take some time to speak about our administrations approach and partnership with states to continue to expand testing across the country at this briefing.But from the very outset of this epidemic, President Trump made efforts to essentially reinvent testing in America. The traditional testing in this country that takes place at CDC or at state labs was designed for basically the kind of diagnostic testing that is routinely required. But the President, early on in this effort, brought together the leading commercial labs in America, and we forged a public and private partnership. And six weeks ago, we had performed some 25,000 tests, and at this day, we have performed 3.7 million tests.We believe that labs and hospitals are now performing more than 120,000 tests a day. And weve actually stood up a team from Walter Reed, under the direction of Dr. Deborah Birx, that is working around the clock to identify additional testing capacity across the country. We believe that states could actually more than double the amount of daily testing that is happening today by simply activating all of the labs. And Dr. Birx will detail some of those resources today, and well be going over those very specifically with governors on Monday.Weve also been promoting the development of new and innovative tests. We all know about the 15minute Abbott test, but the FDA is currently working on an antibody test that literally could add 20 million new tests to our supply, even before the end of April.I want to assure the American people that were going to continue to work with your governors and with your state health officials to scale testing in the days ahead. But as youll hear from all of our experts tonight, our best scientists and health experts assess that states today have enough tests to implement the criteria of phase one, if they choose to do so.Let me say that again Given the  given the guidance in the Presidents new Guidelines for Opening Up America Again, states that meet the criteria for going into phase one, and then are preparing the testing that is contemplated by going to phase one, our best scientists and health experts assess that, today, we have a sufficient amount of testing to meet the requirements of a phase one reopening, if state governors should choose to do that. And youll hear more detail on that in just a moment.At the Presidents direction, were going to be presenting an outline of our approach to testing in partnership with states, during this briefing. Our approach will continue to be locally executed, state managed, and federally supported.Dr. Fauci will give us a brief introduction to the overall approach to testing that is contemplated to deal with the coronavirus. Dr. Redfield and the CDC will describe our plan to mobilize CDC officials in all 50 states to specifically monitor coronavirus  coronavirus incidents that occur in every state in the union.Of course, Dr. Deborah Birx will describe not only our tests, but also the current capability and the capability that we could expand to very readily. And Admiral Giroir of the U.S. Public Health Service will summarize our approach.But I want to assure the American people that, at the Presidents direction, we are going to continue to work every single day to make sure that our states and communities have the testing they need to reopen at the time and manner of their choosing. And were going to work every day to make sure our states have the resources and the supplies to reopen their states and reopen America in a safe and responsible way.With that, Dr. Fauci.DR. FAUCI Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, as the Vice President said, Im going to give you a brief introduction to, kind of, answer the question that weve been asked a lot. In fact, we had a very productive teleconference with the Senate Democratic Caucus just a few hours ago, and they asked a number of questions which were really reasonable questions  questions that are on the mind of a lot of different people. And one of them was the question that was just posed a moment ago, isAre there enough tests to allow us to be able to go through this first phase in a way that is protective of the health and the safety of the American people?So I just want to spend a couple of minutes clarifying a few things and maybe providing some information on a broad 40,000 foot, which youll hear some of the more granular details from my colleagues who will be following me. I think they  they asked me to give the 40,000 foot one because Im not a testing person I didnt run a testing lab, but Im part of a team that is looking at this of how we can best make sure that this happens in the right way.So, first of all, let me say something that weve said before, and I apologize if Im repeating things that you already know, but I think in some respects its important to do that so that people have clarity in what were talking about.There are two general types of tests, even though within each general type there are different subgroups. One of them is to actually test for the infection is a person infected. The other  and Ill get back to that in a second. The other is to test, as we just mentioned, if someone has been infected  usually someone whos been infected, who has recovered. And as Ill get to in a moment, that you could assume  although, we need to do some more work on that  that that person is actually protected against subsequent exposure and infection with an identical organism.So what are some of the pluses and minuses of each? Because the pluses and minuses are really going to impact how we best use the test and how the test actually should be used.So lets take the test for whether or not youre infected. The test of whether or not youre infected is a test that, right now, is called a nucleic acid test. Its not an easy test to do. There are some that are more rapid. There are some that have a high throughput. There are different groups within that. The good news about that is that its a sensitive and specific test, so that if youre infected, you know youre infected, so that  as Ill get to in a moment  if you need to do something with that  get that person, put them in care, take care of them, get them out of circulation  thats important.The point about that that I think is often misunderstood is that if you get a test today  like I did today its negative  if you get a test today, that does not mean that tomorrow or the next day or the next day or the next day, as you get exposed, perhaps from someone who may not even know theyre infected, that that means that Im negative. Which means, if you take that to its extreme, in order to be really sure, you would almost have to test somebody either every day or every other day or every week or what it is to be absolutely certain. Thats an issue.Now, the problem that I talk about when I try and compare this to other situations, with what testing means to you  I, as I think most people know, have been involved in HIVAIDS for 38 years, 39 years  from the very first week of HIV. So thats what I do. If you get a test for HIV and you are negative, and you do not practice any risk behaviors, you can be guaranteed that next month, six months, one year from now, you will be negative if you dont have a risk behavior. So theres a big difference there about what testing actually means.So the point I think youre getting is that, although there is clearly a place for needing to test somebody for a given reason, a test means youre negative now.Now, the other test is an antibody test  a test that tells you, in fact, that youve been infected. Thats really good. Youre going to hear about that  a bit about that from my colleagues in a moment. Because that will give you a broad view of two things one, what the penetrance of the infection had been and number two, you can make an assumption  though we still need to prove that. I mean, we are assuming that if youre infected and you have antibody, youre protected. And I think thats a reasonable assumption, based on our experience with other viruses.But what we want to make sure that we know, and these are some of the challengesWhat is the titer that is protective? How long is the protection? Is it one month? Is it three months? Is it six months? Its a year? So we need to be humble and modest that we dont know everything about it, but it really is an important test.The other thing is the difference between testing and monitoring out there  whats out there. The difference between what we really need it for, for phase one, is to be able to identify, isolate, contact trace. A very important part of when youre putting  pulling back gradually and slowly on the mitigation, and you have people who might be infected  you want to know theyre infected you want to put them in care. That is something that we absolutely need to do.But there are other ways we  I want to make sure people understand that  not to underestimate the importance of testing. Testing is a part, an important part, of a multifaceted way that we are going to control and ultimately end this outbreak.So please dont anyone interpret it that Im downplaying testing, but the emphasis that weve been hearing is essentially, testing is everything, and it isnt. Its the kinds of things that weve been doing  the mitigation strategies  that are an important part of that.Now, just a couple of things before I hand it over to my colleagues. No doubt  no doubt that, early on, we had a problem. I had publicly said that we had a problem early on. There was a problem that had to be corrected, and it was corrected. It was a problem that was a technical problem from within that was corrected. And it was an issue of embracing  the way we have now, and should have  the private sector, who clearly has the capability of making and providing tests at the level that we will need them for any of the things that Ive just spoken about.So, having said that, right now, I totally understand  and I am not alone my colleagues understand  that although we say there are X number of tests out there  and youre going to hear from Admiral Giroir about that  the fact is there have been and still are situations that are correctable, and will be corrected, and some of which have been corrected.I know  I get on the phone a lot with my colleagues, because, believe it or not, some long time ago, I was where they are in the hospitals, in the emergency room, looking at very sick individuals that you need to take care of. And I know what it means when someone tells you, Hey, you have what you need, and you look around and you say, Well, maybe you think I have what I need, but I dont really have what I need. So we have to figure out How do we close that gap?And there are a lot of things that I think weve learned, and that we are correcting and going to correct. Namely, you have a situation where tests are needed and appropriate. And either people have found theres no tests or theres no reagents or theres no swabs  or a person needed a test and were told that there was a restriction they couldnt get a test. These are all the things that Im telling  you already know because youve heard them. So right now  or theres a delay of five to seven days. And what does that mean if you want to do  if you want to get somebody out of circulation?We understand that that existed, but upon careful examination, what you are going to hear that many of those have been already corrected and other of those will be corrected. Because what I think people dont appreciate, through no fault of their own, is that theres  that there are two issues Theres supply and demand. And if you have a supply that can meet the demand, but the supply is not connected to the demand, then supplydemand falls apart.What do I mean by that? I mean there is an existing capacity that we have that, for one reason or other, maybe has not been fully communicated as to the availability of that existing capacity. And youre going to hear about that now. Theres production capacity that gets better and better and better. And thats what were talking about, because for what we need now, we believe that, with better communications, well be able to make that happen.So I know theres going to be a lot of questions about that. I didnt want to go on too long, but let me just finish by saying, given what Ive just said and what I believe what youre going to hear, that, for what we need in the first phase  if these things are done correctly, what I believe they can  we will have and there will be enough tests to allow us to take this country safely through phase one.Thank you.THE VICE PRESIDENT Thank you, Tony.Dr. Redfield.DR. REDFIELD Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I want to make a few comments here. First, I want to talk a little bit about CDC has developed multiple systems to monitor disease outbreaks. I think many of you are familiar, for example, how we monitor for foodborne illness or how we monitor for antibiotic resistance in hospitals. But weve also developed a system to monitor for upper respiratory tract disease. If I can get the first slide there.This is an example  because when we talk about what we know about this current pandemic, the reality is we know a lot because weve developed these monitoring systems.Up on the slide is a system that weve developed initially for flu. And what it does, as you can see, theres multiple different flu seasons, and they track them over the course of a year.I want you to look at the red line. And that happens to be this years respiratory season. And you see theres a peak there up over the 5052 week. And that peak was when we actually had a peak of Influenza B.This year was a little different because after that viral syndrome came down  and you can see it  that actually we had another peak. And thats when Influenza A was active through our country. And you can see Influenza A started to drop. But then you saw a third peak. That peak was  here, were were looking at the coronavirus19.So we have systems, all the way down to the county level, that we can see where theres respiratory tract illness. And so its not just  just taking a test. Its monitoring these systems that have been developed over the last  over decades. And we have multiple ones.We have another one  this  that is monitored in emergency rooms, looking at syndrome diagnosis. And they show the same thing. So were well equipped to monitor  to see when respiratory tract viral disease will come. And it becomes a very good surrogate for when you can begin to understand that we need to start looking more at ideologically about whats going on.You can see now, in week 15, were really coming down to the baseline background, in terms of our flu surveillance system, from the overall coronavirus situation right now.The second thing I wanted to say is that CDC continues to enhance the states public health capacity to accelerate their ability  as Tony talked about, and its critical as we open America again  to diagnose individuals that present with influenzalike illness or coronaviruslike illness, to diagnose them, to be able to isolate them, and to be able to contact trace around them, and then diagnose the contacts. And those that are coronaviruspositive, to go back and do their contacts.This is the traditional public health approach, which was started in this outbreak in January, in February, and was quite successful. And as I mentioned before, through February 27th, this country only had 14 cases. We did that isolation and that contact tracing, and it was very successful. But then, when the virus more exploded  got beyond the public health capacity.But right now, CDC is enhancing that public health capacity. And if I can get the second slide, I want to show you that  this is just showing, as we sit here today, that CDC has embedded, in these health departments and all of these state  states across this country, more than 500 individuals. We also have an additional almost 100 individuals that are working on more than 20 coronavirus outbreaks that are going through all these states.And finally, at the direction of the President, weve been asked to further enhance this deployment in each of the states, as the Vice President said, so that theres additional public health personnel to help accelerate the states ability to basically move forward aggressively. And we assist them so they can operationalize the Presidents Guidelines To Open Up America Again.So I just wanted to make those points for you today.THE VICE PRESIDENT Great job. Thank you.Dr. Birx.DR. BIRX Thank you, Mr. Vice President, and thank you, Dr. Fauci and Dr. Redfield, for all of that clarity.If we can have the next slide, Im going to go back to what Dr. Fauci was talking about just to emphasize those points about the two types of tests and Im going to talk about a third one.So first, we all know about sampling in the front of your nose. To all of the labs out there and to the providers, you dont have to use the nasal pharyngeal swab anymore you can do frontofnose sampling. And again, as Dr. Fauci talked about, is that is sampling for the virus itself that replicates in your nose and, as we know, throughout some of the respiratory tissues.The second test is, of course, then your immune response to that infection thats in your nose. And so, thats the antibody test. And so those are the two tests we want to talk about.But I want to come back to something that both Dr. Fauci and Dr. Redfield said and we covered yesterday Testing is a part of the exquisite monitoring that needs to occur in partnership with CDC and state and local governments, utilizing the surveillance systems that are available  what we just talked about the flu surveillance system, because we no longer have flu, and the syndromic respiratory system. That is across the United States, and you can see its going back to baseline so that well be able to see, at the community level, any deviation from that baseline.In addition, what we talked about yesterday was adding that asymptomatic component. Because I think youll see, as more and more articles come out for surveillance that other  and monitoring that other states have done, higher and higher antibody in multiple individuals who dont remember having a sickness. And that will give us an idea  thats our asymptomatic monitoring in these sentinel monitoring sites. And what we talked about yesterday  we talked about nursing homes, we talked about indigenous people, and we talked about vulnerable people in the inner city, really ensuring that something that is so small, that cant even be seen on the surveillance monitoring, will be able to be seen in the asymptomatic.And so those are the two tests that we have one available now, two that have been approved  or three, by the FDA.I want to just leave you with my last concept on the antibody tests. Antibody tests have different specificity and sensitivities. The FDA, weve made that  the FDA has been very cautious about the antibody tests because I see  I know you see reports every day of countries that have ordered the antibody test and found that they were 50, 60, 70 percent faulty. So were taking that very seriously because you never want to tell someone that they have an antibody and potential immunity when they dont. And so those tests perform better when theres a high prevalence or a high incidence of disease.So we want to work with mayors around the United States, as those antibody tests become available, to really see what it is in first responders and healthcare workers in the highest prevalence states, so that we can know about the quality and the reallife, realfield experience of those assays. Because things can look very good in the lab, and then when you take them into the field, sometimes theyre not as good. Ive learned this lesson repeatedly in working around the globe.The next slide.So this is what we have asked commercial and diagnostic companies to be working on, because when you talk about multimillions worth of tests, the way we do this in the United States today for strep, for influenza, and for malaria, is we test for the antigen. Now, we dont know, right now, if you shed antigen in the front of your nose. And so that is the question that scientists and companies are working on right now. Because that becomes a simpler test.Now, the flu test  I think many of you will look it up tonight  you will see that outside of the flu season, because of the specificity of the test, it doesnt work so well. So these are tests were working on today that would be like a screening test, because if youre positive on it, its a good test, but it may miss that you actually have the flu. So then you would move into the  what we call the nucleic acid test.So were trying to build an algorithm of tests that bring the full talent of the science of the United States into the reality of the clinic. And so, bench to clinic. And so this is what were working on for the future.Next slide.So as I promised both the senators and the governors, this is the United States current platform capacity, designated as high and low throughput. And what do I mean by that? Theres  weve talked about the highthroughput platforms of Roche and Abbott and others. And then weve talked about the gene expert and other machines that may be moderate to lower throughput.I want you to see how its distributed through the United States. So these are the current testing platforms available today throughout the United States for COVID19. And as you heard from Dr. Fauci, everything has to be working, from the swab, to the transport media, to the laboratory, to really get those tests run and the results back to the client.The next slide.So then weve looked at all of the testing capacity from those platforms, and this gives you an idea of what that capacity is. The darkest red  you can see, like, in Texas and New York, those are  those are states that have lots of different platforms, as you saw on the prior slide, and the ability, if you just add up the platforms and the potential for test, of over a million tests per month.And so this is what were working with each of those states on unlocking that full potential. And how are we doing that? Well, were call  were calling on the American Society of Microbiologists. They have  they work closely with 300 lab directors around this  around the country we talked with them this morning. And the Walter Reed team who developed the entire HIV testing program for the military 35 years ago.Ive called them back into service and theyre calling lab by lab to find out what are the technical difficulties to bring up all the platforms that exist in your lab. Is it swabs? Is it transport media? Is it extraction? And I just really want to thank them. Theyve already worked through over 70plus of those laboratories to really understand. And the American Society of Microbiologists and the academic societies of the laboratories are working together to ensure that all of this potential can be unlocked.Next slide, please.We talked a little bit yesterday about New Orleans, and we  and the President talked about how many tests New Orleans has done during its outbreak, which you can see now is waning. Theyve done, throughout the last month, 27 tests per 1,000 New Orleans and Louisianians. So 27 per thousand. So that is a good mark, and thats what  Italy has done about 20 per thousand.So in evaluating an outbreak  and really to get control of this outbreak  they did about 27 tests per thousand. So using that as a measure  next slide  we then looked across all the states of the United States of America, and looked for states that had 30 or more  ability to do 30 or more tests per thousand of their inhabitants in each state. And you can see that, across the country, except for Oregon and Maine and DR. FAUCI Montana.THE VICE PRESIDENT Montana.DR. BIRX Laughs. Montana. I worked overseas way too long. Thank you all. So those are the three states that were working on building capacity in. So this is just to give you a perspective of how seriously were taking the testing issue.As weve described, weve measured every single platform and every single state. We know exactly where they are, by geography, by address, by zip code, what their capacity is, what their cumulative capacity is, what their roadblocks are on nonability to run all their full capacity. And were addressing those because each one of those is different and you have to address each of them one by one with the governors, with the state and local labs, and with all of the hospitals.I have not come across one laboratory or one laboratory director or one society that doesnt want to contribute to solving this issue of testing and ensuring that this testing is available for everyone.There is a strong  just as all the Americans have social distanced, and behind everyone  we dont often talk about the laboratories well talk about the nurses and doctors on the front line  behind all of them are the laboratory technicians and laboratory directors who are coming in every day and putting things together to ensure that every single person that needs to be diagnosed is diagnosed.And hopefully you can see from these labs  I mean these slides that, really, there is capacity out there. It is our job, working with the states and having the state in the leadership role, and the laboratory directors in the leadership role to provide support to ensure that all the potential for testing in the United States is brought to bear.I just want to end with  these are nucleic acid tests. There will never be the ability on a nucleic acid test to do 300 million tests a day or to test everybody before they go to work or to school, but there might be with the antigen test. And so thats why theres a role for nucleic acid test, theres a role for antibody tests, and theres a role for the future development of these other key tests to bring the full ability to the United States.And so, when we finish this, well be talking to all Americans because theres other tests that other Americans should have. And I think this has really brought to light the importance of diagnosis. And well talk to you further about hepatitis C and TB and other things that we can do to assure every American is healthy because I think this has really raised the awareness among all Americans about how you do test for different kinds and different parts of your disease state and what is longlasting immunity, and what may be longlasting immunity, and what is a nucleic acid test and what an antigen test is.And with that, Admiral Giroir.THE VICE PRESIDENT Great. And let me amplify one point, as the Admiral steps forward, to conclude remarks about our approach and the efforts we put underway.Governors across the country have been working very closely with us to roll out the level of testing that we have today. And all the information we presented to you is going to be reviewed in the days ahead and with all of our governors. Our objective is to connect every one of Americas governors and state health officials and to all of the labs that are currently able to do coronavirus.And  but Dr. Birx and Dr. Fauci have both described, we believe today that we have the capacity in the United States to do a sufficient amount of testing for states to move into phase one at the time and manner that they deem to be appropriate.And with that, Ill allow Admiral Giroir to complete our briefing on testing. And we expect the President to return.ADMIRAL GIROIR Thank you, Mr. Vice President, and thank you to all my really great colleagues.Can I have the  my next slide?So I wanted to start by where we are today and just to visit where weve come in such a short period of time. As everyone on the stage has said before, our testing right now is well over 3.78 million tests that have been completed. And if you are impressed by bar graphs, thats over 1.2 million tests reported just in the last week.Ambassador Birx talked to me a little earlier, and she said, You know, we only do about 2 million molecular tests a year for HIV  something thats been done for  developed for 35 years. Were now doing twice that number of tests in a month for a disease that has never been known before, that theres never been a test developed before. And thats sort of where we are and where weve ramped up.I also want to give you a little idea  the lighter blue or lighter gray is our ID NOW tests. So we talk about them a lot because they are a pointofcare test that can be between 5 and 15 minutes. And they have a very specific role, but theyre not for everybody. If youve got to screen a few thousand people, four tests an hour doesnt get you there on a machine you have to use some of the larger, higherthroughput items. But they have a very important role. And, again, coming into the market at 50,000 per day is really an important adjunct to us.She talked about the GeneXpert from Cepheid. Very important. We dont talk about that very much, but it is one of the backbone mobile pointofcare  not as easy to do, per se, as the Abbott  but it is a pointofcare test that really carries tuberculosis screening all through Africa. There are these machines  you saw that on her slide  every one of the 50 states has this in over 600 sites, and theyve done over 700,000 tests just on that relatively low throughput, but very important platform.Next slide, please.I wanted to give you an idea of, sort of, how the tests are distributed and how theyre changing over time. On the left are the state public health laboratories. And although their numbers are relatively small  about 350,000  the state public health laboratories are absolutely critical. Theyre  theyre an absolutely critical core component of our testing. Not only were they there early and first, but they also do things like support outbreak investigations in nursing homes or investigations in certain plants that have close proximity with everyone because of their work environments. They also do testing on many people who do not have the opportunity to be tested elsewhere. And they are performing outstandingly well.ACLA  I know we hate acronyms, but the American Clinical Laboratory Association  this is Americas commercial industrial backbone that were standing behind the President and the Vice President. And when I was there a few weeks ago in the Rose Garden  this is the LabCorp, the Quest, the BioReference Laboratory, Mayo, Sonic, and ARUP. And youll see theyve done almost 2.3 million tests. This is the very large, highthroughput machines that Dr. Birx talks about.And I want to be clear about  about this group, is that it doesnt matter where you are. I just took one of the largest labs, and I said, Map out for me where you are, within 10 miles of where you are, every site in the country. And when you do that, within 10 miles of a site of one of these, 93 percent of the U.S. population is covered.These are truly national reference labs that cover almost everybody within the United States. So if you cannot get a test at your hospital, the chances are overwhelming that you could send this to these labs that are fully caught up now. They have no backlog of tests. Theyve ramped up their production, so their turnaround time is about 48 hours  because you may need to transport it from the middle of America, out to a lab, and result that. But thats really very, very, very good.The American Hospital Association and also academic labs  as the Vice President and the President have said, as more and more labs come online, theyre increasing the amount of testing that are done just at the hospitals or at academic medical centers  now almost at 600,000 tests.And again, matching the other slide, I had the Abbott pointofcare tests  just to give you a distribution  and that pointofcare test is being used, very importantly, in very select populations where a pointofcare test is really needed. That could be in some hospitals, where someone needs to know exactly if a person is positive or not to go on a clinical trial, or in a nursing home investigation, or sometimes to get people screened to go back into the work environment.Most people dont need a pointofcare test. In fact, a pointofcare test does not  cannot replace the millions of tests that are here on the other slide.Next slide.I dont know how interested you are in swabs. I did not know a whole lot of swabs before a few weeks ago. But theres two points I want to make with these slides  is, yes, there have been constraining elements, and theyre constrained for a couple reasons. Number one, because this is an unprecedented scaleup of this type of very sophisticated molecular tests that has never put a demand on the system like we have. When we started out a few weeks ago, theres very specific, one type of swab only get it one place in the U.S., one place in Italy. And we were stuck with that for a while because its not just the quantity, its the quality.What I dont want to do is put a lot of things in the system to make people believe that this is a good test, when it hasnt been validated by the FDA, to say that a positive is a positive and a negative is a negative. But over the past weeks, both the scientific community, the Gates Foundation, academic medical centers, the FDA, have really opened up our ability to not stick that all the way back in your nasal pharynx, but do the anterior nose, and to greatly broaden the amount of swab types that are available.So we are really at a point, right now, that over the next  by the end of April, will put another 5 million swabs, in addition to everything thats out there now, and, by the end of May, over 12 million new swabs in the system  more than enough to obtain the capacity that we need.Next slide.For these molecular tests, you take a swab and you stick it in a test tube, and that test tube has to have a specific kind of liquid in it. And when we started, it was viral transport media  a very special kind of media. The CDC has a make your own recipe. If youre interested in cooking, you could probably do that, but it has a lot of ingredients that go in there, but still very limiting.Weve worked with many, many different laboratories. Weve worked with the FDA. So now, PBS, phosphatebuffered saline  a, kind of, just laboratorygrade saltwater  can be used for this. This greatly opens the ability to expand the test to support all the capability that Dr. Birx talks about.And again, by the end of April, we will have put well over 5 million new tubes of either viral transport media or saline into the system.I am going to get to a conclusion here, but this was going to be more of a technical briefing.Next slide.So lets talk about the fact that the science tells us that we have and will continue to have enough tests to safely go into phase one. So let me be very granular about this Weve already heard that it is beyond the possibility to test everyone in this country every day. Its  its just not possible. But its also a bad strategy because testing a person now just means theyre negative now. Dr. Fauci could be positive tomorrow, because its brewing in his system right now and we dont know it, or that he contacts that. Thats not the way we go about things.The way we go about things, as Dr. Redfield said, just  just think of the weather radar, okay? If the weather radar is clear, youre not going to have a thunderstorm or a tornado. When something pops up, thats when youve got to go to where the action is or know that your warning system is up. So, sort of, think of that in the background, and Ill go specifically about that. So thats monitoring.Let me talk about how much testing we need, just for overall testing. Im just going to give you a number Im not saying that this is the number thats there. But lets just take a number that we are going to enter phase one when there are 200,000 new cases per month in the United States. Dont get hung up on that  its going to be much less than that  but lets just say 200,000 cases. So, how many tests do we need?Well, we need to test those 200,000 people to make the diagnosis, right? Everybody nod your head about that. We have to do that. Now, whats a safe number over that? You know, if everybody I test has the disease, Im not testing enough, right? But if I test 100 people to have 1 person with the disease, thats probably overtesting.So we kind of assume that a safe number that really gives us a good idea is if about 1 out of 10 people are positive, then we know were oversampling the population enough that were getting all the positives. So if theres 200,000 cases, I need about 2 million tests. Okay?Now, to go to Dr. Redfields point, each one of those that are positive have contacts that need to be traced. And on average, the CDC tells me that for every positive, there are about five contacts that really need to be traced. So lets assume that those 200,000 people have five contacts. So now we have an extra million tests.So 2 million tests out there to detect the 200,000 cases, an extra million out there to trace those contacts. So were up to about 3 million cases. If you want to put a fudge factor  say theres 4 million tests, okay?Those are generally done at the main hospital labs, the commercial labs, state and regional labs. All this can be done  as well as some of the labs talked about by Dr. Birx.Next slide.The second group of testing fits exactly perfectly with the influenzalike surveillance system that Dr. Redfield talked about. This is the monitoring. This is, sort of, the radar  the weather radar that it would be out there  that were not testing people who are symptomatic. We want to do testing on people who are asymptomatic because you can have asymptomatic carriage. You know, you could have this virus and shed it, and not have symptoms or only mild symptoms.So what is the strategy here? The strategy here  this is an unprecedented strategy, okay? This is  this is really unprecedented. But were going to do, prob  between three and five hundred tests per week in the most vulnerable populations that we know that the virus could circulate.And what are they? Number one, nursing home and longterm care facilities. We know that from the history of this  of this virus, that that can circulate and be devastating. And it could circulate even in a way that you dont have symptoms. So were going to survey, in a very controlled way, driven by the CDC, supervised by the CDC, surveys over  we may not get to everyone, but surveying in the areas to cover, in a selective way, the 15,000 or so nursing homes.Secondly, we want to work in vulnerable members in cities. And this is  the way we think about that is community health centers. Im a huge fan of community health centers that are led by HRSA. There are there are about 30,000 community health center sites. They take care of 30 million people  children, adults, elderly. They care for about one third of Americans below the poverty level. They are arrayed to take care of our most vulnerable populations. So we want to survey asymptomatic people in those community health centers.We also want to do in some of our indigenous population. And you know, very early, I was out here bringing machines to the Indian Health Service. And, in fact, 1,800 members of the Public Health Service provide care to the Indian Health Service, and their Director and Chief Medical Officer are both admirals in the Indian Health Service.Plus, workplace monitoring, particularly for workplace environments that may have very close contact or may have a high risk. And some of those could be agricultural facilities.So lets just total that up. We have 200,000 people who need a diagnosis. To make that diagnosis, we want to test 2 million. Okay? So thats 2 million. Were going to contact trace with a million. And lets just throw you a fudge factor of about 25 percent on that so thats 4 million. And we have this background testing of about 400  of about 400,000 per month.So to safely do the testing, we need to be in the range of four and a half million  you followed my numbers,because I want you to understand  per month that THE VICE PRESIDENT For phase one.ADMIRAL GIROIR Pardon me?THE VICE PRESIDENT For phase one.ADMIRAL GIROIR For phase one. Right. For phase one. And I want to tell you thats really how it adds up, and thats where we are. Right now, were doing about 1 million to 1.2 million per week. Were going to continue to push that farther and further, as we open up the laboratories and were able to open all the supplies that we need for that.And I think thats where I would like to end. Thank you.THE VICE PRESIDENT Great. Thank you. Ill ask the team to step back up for questions. And we do anticipate, as his schedule permitted, that the President be returning momentarily.Please.