James S. Brady Press Briefing Room606 P.M. EDTTHE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Our nation is engaged in a historic battle against the invisible enemy. To win this fight, we have undertaken the greatest national mobilization since World War Two. And thats exactly what its been.Weve marshaled every instrument of American power, and weve unleashed our most potent weapon of all the courage of the American people.These have been trying times. A cruel virus from a distant land has unfairly claimed thousands of precious American lives. To every citizen who has lost a cherished loved one Your pain is our pain. We mourn as one national family. Our country has come together. We draw solace from the faith that God has received, and the departed  He has taken the departed into his eternal and loving embrace. They will never be forgotten.Over the last weeks and months, millions of Americans have joined together in a shared national sacrifice to halt the spread of this horrible disease. The Army built field hospitals and sports arenas and convention centers. The Army Corps of Engineers is great. Over 20,000 beds in record time.The Navy sailed hospital ships to our biggest cities. Lifesaving supplies and experimental medicines were rushed to the frontlines as we launched a rapid search for groundbreaking treatments and vaccines.We built the most advanced and robust testing anywhere in the world, and weve done more testing than any country anywhere in the world.We suspended dangerous foreign travel. We leveraged our industrial base to produce vast quantities of critical medical gear and enacted a historic 2trilliondollar relief package.Through it all, we have seen the heroism of our doctors and nurses like never before  these are our warriors  the bravery of our truck drivers  such bravery  and food suppliers  such incredible bravery, and the determination and drive of our citizens. Through this unified national endeavor, we have made great progress. You could really say incredible progress.Our experts and scientists report that our strategy to slow the spread has saved hundreds of thousands of lives. Models predicted between 1.5 million and 2.2 million U.S. deaths  if there was no mitigation, it could have even been higher than that  and between 100,000 and 240,000 deaths with mitigation. Its looking like we will come far under even these lowest numbers.Thanks to our allout military operation and the extraordinary devotion of our people, we believe we will experience far fewer deaths than even the optimistic projection. But there is no such thing as an optimistic projection on death. One person is too many.Our experts say the curve has flattened and the peak in new cases is behind us. Nationwide, more than 850 counties, or nearly 30 percent of our country, have reported no new cases in the last seven days.Because of our early and aggressive action, we have avoided the tragedy of healthcare rationing and deadly shortfalls that have befallen many other nations  nations which, wherever possible, we are helping. In America, no person who has needed a ventilator has been denied a ventilator. Were making hundreds of thousands of ventilators. Weve delivered thousands and thousands of ventilators to the states.And actually, its been an incredible operation. We started with very little and we ended with a lot. The United States has achieved a significant lower mortality rate than almost all other countries.Based on the latest data, our team of experts now agrees that we can begin the next front in our war, which were calling, Opening Up America Again. And thats what were doing Were opening up our country. And we have to do that. America wants to be open, and Americans want to be open.As I have said for some time now, a national shutdown is not a sustainable longterm solution. To preserve the health of our citizens, we must also preserve the health and functioning of our economy. Over the long haul, you cant do one without the other. It cannot be done. To keep vital supply chains running, these chains have to be taken care of so delicately. Theyre delicate. The balance is delicate.We want to deliver food and medical supply. We must have a working economy. And we want to get it back very, very quickly, and thats whats going to happen. I believe it will boom.A prolonged lockdown combined with a forced economic depression would inflict an immense and wideranging toll on public health. This includes a sharp rise in drug abuse, alcohol abuse, suicide, heart disease, and many other dimensions of physical and mental wellbeing. Moreover, many patients have put needed medical care on hold, creating entirely new hazards for public health.Our country has suffered. The world has suffered. One hundred and eightyfour other countries have suffered.Therefore, my administration is issuing new federal guidelines that will allow governors to take a phased and deliberate approach to reopening their individual states. Ive dealt with them now a long time, and weve had a great relationship  Democrat, Republican. The relationship has been good. This strategy is based on hard, verifiable data.I want to thank Dr. Birx for her incredible leadership in crafting these guidelines in consultation with scientists, experts, and medical professionals across government. Dr. Birx will explain the guidelines in more detail in a few moments. And Dr. Fauci has been absolutely terrific. Weve all worked together, and weve worked together well.They are interested in the health of our country. And were all interested in the viability and making us truly great again. We took the greatest economy in the history of the world, and we closed it in order to win this war. And were in the process of winning it now.Our approach outlines three phases in restoring our economic life. We are not opening all at once, but one careful step at a time. And some states will be able to open up sooner than others. Some states are not in the kind of trouble that others are in.Now that we have passed the peak in new cases, were starting our life again, were starting rejuvenation of our economy again, in a safe and structured and very responsible fashion.Our strategy will continue to protect senior citizens and other vulnerable populations while allowing military and other groups of incredibly talented people to go about their real business and the business thats supposed to be hard at work at doing. And nobody does it better. Our military is the greatest anywhere in the world, and were so thankful for what theyve done.Healthy Americans will now be able to return to work as conditions on the ground allow. Instead of a blanket shutdown, we will pursue a focus on sheltering the highestrisk individuals. So important. Were establishing clear scientific, metric, and  benchmarks on testing, new case growth, and hospital capacity that must be met before advancing to each phase. And thats each phase specifically in the reopening of our country.This is a gradual process. As the caseload in a state continues to go down, restrictions can continue to be eased and come off. Throughout the process, citizens will continue to be called upon to use all of their weapons in this war vigorous hygiene, teleworking when possible, staying at home if you feel sick, maintaining social distance, sanitizing commonly used surfaces, and being highly conscious of their surroundings. Those are our weapons, and theyre very powerful weapons indeed.Governors will be empowered to tailor an approach that meets the diverse circumstances of their own states. Every state is very different. Theyre all beautiful. We love them all. But theyre very, very different. If they need to remain closed, we will allow them to do that. And if they believe it is time to reopen, we will provide them the freedom and guidance to accomplish that task  and very, very quickly  depending on what they want to do.We are also encouraging states to work together to harmonize their regional efforts. Well have numerous cases where states have worked and will be working very, very closely together.As we reopen, we know that there will be continued hardships and challenges ahead. Our goal will be to quickly identify and address any outbreaks and put them out rapidly. If the virus returns in the fall, as some scientists think it may possibly, these guidelines will ensure that our country is up and running so that we can likewise put it out quickly.At the heart of our strategy is the vital role of medical research, especially for therapies that will significantly improve outcomes for highrisk patients and reduce the need for urgent care. This will be tremendously valuable in allowing life to eventually return to normal. At least 35 clinical trials are already underway, including antiviral therapies, immune therapies, and blood therapies in the form of convalescent plasma. Youve all heard about some of these events and some of these therapies. Theyve come a long way. Whats been done in the last four weeks is incredible.We will also continue to expand our testing capacity. We have now completed more than 3.5 million tests  by far the most anywhere in the world. Areas of our country that have been hotspots have done much more testing, on a per capita basis, than South Korea. Weve done more than South Korea  and South Korea has done a good job, but weve done more.We will continue to work with governors to advise them on how to conduct both surveillance and diagnostic testing. We have now distributed over 600,000 Abbott ID NOW pointofcare diagnostic tests. These are tests that are done on site, and, within five minutes, you know the answer positive or negative.In recent days, we have seen a dramatic increase in the number of tests performed by hospitals and academic institutions, with more than 120,000 tests recently reported in a single day  far more than any country in the world has ever been able to do. And our numbers are actually going up.As these new and better testing solutions come online, were seeing this additional capacity reflected in the numbers. For this reason, the number of tests processed in commercial laboratories has dropped from approximately 100,000 to roughly 75,000 tests over the last week. The reason it dropped is because we have so many other tests and we dont even have to go through the laboratories. But the laboratories have tremendous additional capacity, and states feel free to use that capacity.Some in the media falsely reported this as a bad thing, when, in fact, it is a great thing because it indicates that the states are moving to faster, more local testing solutions, including onthespot tests.So this drop in the utilization of commercial laboratories is an affirmation that testing, which is at an alltime high, is growing at a historic rate. In other words, the laboratories are great, but now we have forms of testing that are much quicker, much better, and we dont have to use the laboratories. But theyre there, and they have a great capacity to do the work.As Dr. Birx has been advising our governors for weeks, we continue to have an excess testing capacity of 1 million tests per week available for use. And our capabilities are growing every single day, especially with the new tests that are coming onto the market rapidly.As we begin a sciencebased reopening, we must be extra vigilant in blocking the foreign entry of the virus from abroad. Border control, travel restrictions, and other limitations on entry are more important than ever to keep the virus in check and allow Americans to get back to work.The sacrifices our citizens have made in this time of crisis will be remembered, studied, honored, and praised for generations to come. Were really all working together. Democrat, Republican, conservative, liberal  were all working together. This is not about parties this is about our country.Now the American people are ready to rise to the occasion once again. They are ready to show the world once more that Americans can defeat any challenger. Together, we will rebuild this land that we love, we will reclaim the magnificent destiny that we share, and we will carry our nation forward to new heights of greatness and glory.I would now like to ask Vice President Mike Pence and Dr. Birx to further explain the new guidelines. I want to thank Dr. Birx. I want to thank Dr. Fauci. And I want to thank, really especially, a man who has devoted 24 hours a day to his task force and done such an incredible job  our great Vice President, Mike Pence.Please, Mike.THE VICE PRESIDENT Thank you, Mr. President. The members of the White House Coronavirus Task Force today joined the President to meet with a bipartisan group of members of the House and of the Senate to get their counsel on the development of what the President unveiled to Americas governors this afternoon.The new guidelines for Opening Up America Again are a product of the best science and the best common sense that the President has marshaled on this team and from a broad range of advisors from all across the nation.From the moment President Trump established the White House Coronavirus Task Force, early on he made it clear that we have no higher priority than the health and safety of the American people.The President launched a wholeofgovernment approach. And while we stand here, on this day, with more than 640,000 Americans having contracted the coronavirus  and our hearts go out to the families of the more than 31,000 Americans who lost their lives and those who continue to struggle with serious consequences of the coronavirus  the truth is that because of the decisive action that our President took early on, suspending travel from China and thereafter from portions of Europe and South Korea screening passengers because of the strong actions in partnership with every governor across America because of the extraordinary efforts of Americas healthcare workers on the frontlines and because of the cooperation of the American people and Gods grace, we are slowing the spread, we are flattening the curve, we have preserved the capacity of our healthcare system, and weve protected the most vulnerable.In a word, because of the actions of this President, this administration, governors at every level, our healthcare workers, and our fellow Americans, weve saved lives. And every American should be comforted by that.And we can see it in the numbers, in the charts that Ill present today. These three maps track influenzalike illness, which, in this instance, is mostly coronavirus across America. The first map reflects the total number of cases on the week ending March the 28th. The next map reflects our data about the total number of cases on the week ending April 4. And we stand here today with the final map reflecting the total number of cases across America, as of April the 11th.With these trends underway, President Trump tasked the White House Coronavirus Task Force to develop new guidelines for Opening Up America Again. Those guidelines were presented today  first, to our nations governors. And it is our intention, at the Presidents direction, to provide these guidelines to assist governors and state health officials in evaluating the most responsible manner to reopen the economies of their states at a time and manner of their choosing.The guidelines, as Americans who are looking on will note, begin with what is the best criteria that our experts have developed  a downward trajectory in cases over a 14day period of time  ensuring that states have proper capacity in their healthcare facilities.The second set of proposals includes a description of recommendations for state preparedness. And let me say to the American people what President Trump made clear to our governors today that our administration will continue to work day in and day out  through our task force, through FEMA  to ensure that our states have not only the medical supplies, but that we continue to rapidly expand testing across the nation.The President reflected on the progress weve made on testing, but a few statistics for that as well, which I hope are an encouragement to the American people. On March 11, we had performed a total of 23,588 tests. Because of the publicprivate partnership that President Trump initiated with commercial labs across the country, that number was 83,500 by March 18. And as the President just said, that number is 3.5 million today. It is our expectation that we will have tested more than 5 million Americans before the end of the month of April, and well continue to scale those resources.So, testing and medical supplies will continue to be an ongoing partnership with our states, and we want our healthcare workers and people all across the country to know of our commitment to that.Finally, the President directed us to propose a phased approach to reopening  to reopening our economy. It is based on uptodate data and readiness, and well continue to provide the very best data to our states, working with their health officials.The focus is on the mitigation of any risk of resurgence or the emergence of the coronavirus in states where its not yet emerged. There is a focus in the Presidents new guidelines on the most vulnerable.And its  we made this very clear to the governors today These new guidelines for Opening Up America Again can be implemented on a statewide basis or on a countybycounty basis.With that, Im happy to turn it over to Dr. Deborah Birx and, if I may, Mr. President, Id like to also extend my admiration and appreciation to Dr. Birx, Dr. Fauci, and every member of our task force that worked around the clock to develop these recommendations for opening up America. I know every American is grateful for your leadership and for theirs.Deborah.DR. BIRX Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President. Were going to go through these quickly because I know you have them, and many of you have already spoken to them on television.Next slide, please.This is a very important slide. It talks about the gatekeeping  on the gatekeeping criteria to moving into phase one. Its very much related to what you just saw about influenzalike illness. And the United States has been tracking influenzalike illnesses through the Centers of Disease Control for years.Both the state and public health officials are used to watching this, county health officials are used to watching it, and frankly, every family around the United States knows how to access this on the CDC website in order to get update  uptodate information to the communities.It also looks at a syndromic emergency roomtype visits  again, housed at the CDC  and really is our surveillance program that can be utilized for a lot of different illnesses, but in this case, will be utilized for respiratory diseases.In addition, we are tracking the number of cases, and it must have a downward trajectory for 14 days  as well as the influenzalike illness and the syndromic illnesses  and a downward trajectory in the number of positive tests with persistence of high levels of testing.For the hospitals, its to ensure that we can treat all patients without resorting to any crisis care and ensuring that theres a robust testing program in place for atrisk healthcare workers, including frontline responders with the emerging antibody tests.Next slide.Now, just to show you what this looks likeSo what the CDC did for me, under the direction of Bob Redfield, was to chart what would the syndromic illnesses were reporting throughout the early part of March. And you can see, in New Orleans, respiratory diseases were starting to be seen in the emergency room. That is the red line. The cases are shown in the dark blue line. The gray mountain is testing, and underneath that is the blue mountain of positives. And you can see that the early alert was present from the emergency room about early respiratory disease. You can see it predated the cases.So, throughout the summer, when we do not have flu to contaminate this picture, well be able to follow this syndromic pattern city by city, county by county, community by community, state by state.Next slide.In addition, the CDC has the influenzalike illness net distributed throughout the United States  very useful in the wintertime. That first peak is influenza B in the red thats this season. I showed you all the seasons here so you could see the seasons as they are displayed.The first peak is influenza B, second peak influenza A. And then you can see the coronavirus. And you can see its decline, and its declining towards the baseline. This will allow us  again, city by city, community by community, state by state  to look for variations and an early response mode in those localities that I described.Next slide.So hopefully you see that weve brought CDC and their amazing talent of individuals at the Center for Disease Control and Prevention and all of their abilities to this response and also to the surveillance that we need in this response.But I want to call your attention to the third bullet on this graphic. So were tracking those two pieces that I described. But the third bullet is about setting up sentinel surveillance sites to be able to distinguish and find asymptomatic individuals  individuals that you have heard about that may be either presymptomatic or asymptomatic throughout their entire disease course. We want to be able to find them in communities of particular vulnerability.So well be doing sentinel surveillance throughout nursing homes, throughout innercity federal clinics, throughout indigenous populations, to really be able to find early alerts of asymptomatic individuals in the community. And both for the syndromic cases that are tested, the influenzalike cases, and the asymptomatic cases doing contact tracing, again, with support from the Centers for Disease Control, working with each state and local government.In addition, we want to make sure that all the healthcare facilities have adequate protective  personal protective devices and the equipment to handle the surge and to ensure the ICUs can handle increased capacity.We want every state to have a plan for the health and safety of its workers in critical industries, and to protect the health and safety of those living in highrisk facilities, including senior care facilities, as we discussed with sentinel surveillance but also additional surveillance.When we talked with all of the states that had not had a major metro outbreak, their sentinel surveillances picked up, always, the first cases in nursing homes. And so this is very much a big focus of the plan moving forward. I wont go into the rest of the details on this slide, but theres quite a bit of details on the expectations of every state and local government.Next slide.Youll recognize this slide, its a  next slide, please. Youll recognize this slide its what weve been talking about in the 15 and 30 days to prevent the spread. Its continuing those critical handwashing or sanitizer avoiding touching your face at all times disinfecting surfaces using face covering while in public following state and local guidelines and, critically, staying home if you are sick.I know a lot of people go to the workplace when they are feeling ill. You know when youre feeling ill. It wont get better by going to work. So were asking again for people to stay home when theyre sick.Next slide is for employers to ensure that there can be social distancing and protective equipment temperature checks use of disinfectant in hightraffic areas, including break rooms and ensuring that we dont do  theres no nonessential business travel and then monitoring for any symptomatic individuals in the workplace. And again, if you come  become ill at work, to immediately to go home and ensure that theres contact tracing of all the individuals that become sick.Im going to go through the phases very quickly, but you have the details.Phase one Again, you have to go through those gating criterias related to 14 days of decreasing evidence of illness and decreasing testing, despite adequate testing. So phase one begins with all vulnerable individuals, including those with comorbidities continuing to shelter in place and ensuring that those  the first to go out into the public are not those that are most vulnerable to bad outcomes in this disease. And then ensuring that we continue to do sixfeet maximum physical distancing in public spaces, continuing to avoid large gatherings and all nonessential travel.For the employers  next slide  again, if a vulnerable population needs to return to work and cannot be teleworking, there should be special accommodations for all vulnerable populations, as well as options for teleworking. We believe every employee should encourage work return in phases from 20 percent or 25 percent, to 40 percent, to 50 percent. And again, minimize all nonessential travel.Phase one continued  next slide. If the schools are already closed, they should remain closed. All visits to senior living facilities and hospitals should be continued to be prohibited. Large venues, including sitdown dining, can only be operated under strict physical distancing protocols and maintaining those six feet. Gyms could open if they, again, adhere to strict physical distancing. And elective surgeries can resume on an outpatient basis.Phase two  next slide. Next slide. Again, you have to go through the criteria, again, of a continuation of another 14day decline among those criterias that were in the gating. Again, were asking for all vulnerable individuals Shelter in place.We did not put a timeline on any of the phases. We want the governors, with the data that they have, community by community, to be setting up those timelines. Again, were asking for the public to continue to maximize physical distance however, we increased social settings to be able to now have 50 individuals, and nonessential travel can resume.Next slide.This is for the employers. We still would like to encourage telework, and the common areas should remain closed or be physically distant. All nonessential travel for employees can resume. And then, again, special accommodations for vulnerable.Next slide.This should be a relief to many of  households that have small children. Schools, daycares, and camps can reopen in phase two. Visits to seniorliving facilities, however, should remain  and hospitals  prohibited. Large venues can operate but solely under moderate physical distancing. And elective surgeries can resume on an outpatient and inpatient basis.Phase three And so phase three  I wont go through in detail  its essentially returning to our new normal, with all of what we talked about through all phases continuing the good hygiene practices, continuing the respect for spaces between individuals, because we know that we still have an issue with asymptomatic spread.I do believe with this plan that were both confronting the issue of finding symptomatic individuals through our networks with early alert, as well as those who come and present to different hospitals and emergency room with testing and contact tracing, but critically have put in place what we believe is a safety net through asymptomatic sentinel surveillance that is centered around our most vulnerable groups  between nursing homes and our Native American people and indigenous populations, and our inner city groups that we know may be in multigenerational households and have unique risk.Ill stop there, Mr.President.THE PRESIDENT Thank you very much. Please, Tony.DR. FAUCI Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President. So as youve seen just now from the detailed presentation from Dr. Birx, this is a rather robust program for reentering into normality.Theres a lot of details here, and I know itll take a little bit of time to digest them all. So what I thought would be good, since I really want to be brief to allow time for questions, is to kind of take us back to the discussions that weve had here before and why this is a natural evolution from what we had said before.You might recall that, on a few occasions when I was up here before you, I told you that when we get to the point where were going to take those steps towards trying to get back to some form of normality, that it would not be a light switch that you could turn on and off. I meant that in two different components.First of all, that we are a very large country and we have different dynamics in the country. We have areas of the country that have gone through a terrible ordeal, and others that fortunately have gone and gotten  gotten through this rather lightly. So thats the first thing.The second thing is that light switch, on and off, is the exact opposite of what you see here, which is a gradual gradation. But the first thing and the only thing in mind, as the health people here  and my colleagues, who are either physicians, scientists, or public health issues  the predominant and completely driving element that we put into this was the safety and the health of the American public.And I know there are a lot of other considerations that go into opening  considerations that youve heard of right from this podium. But the dominating drive of this was to make sure that this is done in the safest way possible.So let me just make a couple of comments to just reiterate more, from a broader standpoint, the things that Dr. Birx did so well in a very a granular detail.First of all, in order to even consider getting into the phasing, you have to pass a hurdle. And thats the hurdle that we refer to as gating in. Now, when you think about it and look at the map of the country and look at the differences in different parts of the country, you will see that there are some regions, states, locations that are going to be almost already into some of that gating, and will have already fulfilled some of those criteria. Others, because of the dynamics of the outbreak in the area, will take longer to be able to do that. But you dont get to phase one until you get through the gating.And then in order to make sure that safety and health is the dominant issue, the design of the phases were just that. You go into phase one. If you get no rebound and you satisfy the gating for yet again a second time, then you go to phase two. If you have no rebound and you satisfy the gating criteria for a third time, you go into phase three. So there are multiple checkpoints of safety there.So as Ive said, from this podium, when we were talking about the first 15 days of the mitigation and then we extended it another 30 days, I essentially pleaded with the American public to say, Let us make sure we do the best that we can to accomplish that.And, in fact, mitigation works. You saw the charts that the Vice President and that Dr. Birx put up. It worked. And what we hope and I believe we will be successful If we carefully do this  again, with the attention to the safety and health of the American public  that we will be able to  and it will be staggered. Not every state, not every region is going to do it at the same time thats clearly obvious because of the very dynamics of the outbreak.But we feel confident that, sooner or later, we will get to the point  hopefully sooner, with safety as the most important thing  to a point where we can get back to some form of normality.The one thing I liked about it that  that Dr. Birx said so well  is that no matter what phase youre in, there are certain fundamental things that weve done that are not like it was in September and October. You want to call it the new normal  you can call it whatever you want. But even if you are in phase one, two, three, its not, Okay, game over. Its not. Its going to be a way that we protect ourselves because, as we know, and as Ive said from this podium, it may very well be  as we go the cycle around  that therell be this virus that wants to come back to us.I think were going to be able to handle that. Thank you.THE VICE PRESIDENT Great. Thank you. Tony, please.